<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0001 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 2339EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u p AM-PresidentialPoll     06-20 0240</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Presidential Poll,210</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Washington Post Poll Puts Dukakis Well Ahead Of Bush</HEAD>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Democratic presidential contender Michael
Dukakis leads Republican George Bush in double digits, a new poll
by The Washington Post indicates.
   However, Bush has slightly improved his standing since the
latest such survey, the newspaper reported in Tuesday's editions.
   The latest poll suggests Dukakis leads Bush 51 percent to 39
percent. In a similar survey on May 25, the Massachusetts governor
was ahead of the vice president by just a bit more _ 53 to 40
percent.
   After the May poll, Dukakis went on to lock up the Democratic
nomination in the final round of primaries on June 7. Bush has been
the all-but-certain nominee since April, when he attained enough
delegates for the GOP nod.
   The Post poll suggests that Bush is significantly better known
than Dukakis. Ten percent of the voters said they know a great deal
about Dukakis, compared to 29 percent for Bush.
   The survey suggested that only half the supporters of both
candidates described themselves as ``strong'' supporters of the
candidate of their choice, with the remainder saying their
preference is ``not strong.''
   The telephone survey of 1,012 adults was conducted from
Wednesday to Sunday. Of those, 782 were registered voters.
   For results based on the entire sample, the margin of error was
plus or minus 3 percentage points, the Post said. It was 4
percentage points for registered voters.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0002 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 2342EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u i AM-Haiti 4thLd-Writethru a0835 06-20 0848</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Haiti, 4th Ld-Writethru, a0835,0872</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Namphy Ousts Civilians, Declares Himself President</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: LEADS with 6 grafs to UPDATE with Manigat saying he's unhurt,
reportedly offered asylum in Venezuela, details; Restores Namphy's
earlier television quote. PICKUP 4th graf pvs `Except for...';
EDITS from 15th graf pvs `At first, ... to bottom to TRIM.</NOTE>
<HEAD>LaserPhoto PAP1; LaserGraphic NY15</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By ED McCULLOUGH</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<TEXT>
   PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti (AP) _ Lt. Gen. Henri Namphy formed a
military government Monday with himself in charge, after deposing
the 4-month-old civilian administration of President Leslie Manigat.
   The 55-year-old career soldier named a 12-member Cabinet that
included only one civilian, and said he would rule by decree as the
new president.
   ``The army will lead the country this way,'' Namphy declared on
national television shortly after the coup, waving an Uzi
submachine gun and flanked by soldiers.
   Manigat, who was seized Sunday evening at his hillside villa
outside Port-au-Prince, arrived in neighboring Dominican Republic
on Monday with his family, said military sources in Santo Domingo.
   In a statement issued through a spokesman of the hotel where
Manigat and his family were staying, the 57-year-old ousted
president said he was not injured in the coup.
   The administration of President Joaquin Balaguer gave no
official statement, but Foreign Ministry sources said Manigat was a
``guest of the Dominican government'' and might travel Tuesday
afternoon to Venezuela, where he had been offered political asylum.
   Except for a few random shots heard, Port-au-Prince was quiet
Monday night. There were no reports of unrest in the provinces. Men
and women strolled past the national palace and children played
soccer at a closed gasoline station two blocks away.
   In a short live broadcast on state-run television from the
National Palace, Namphy said Manigat ``betrayed your confidence and
violated the constitution he swore to uphold.''
   ``The future of democracy was at stake,'' said the general, who
was accompanied by elements of every unit in Haiti's 7,000-member
armed forces. ``The army must protect the superior interests of the
country and must head the country. To this end, a military
government has been formed.''
   Namphy, who spoke in French for about five minutes, pledged to
``guarantee that all the conquests of Feb. 7 (when his three-man
junta turned over the government to Manigat) will be respected. To
our powerful friends and to international organizations, I
guarantee the respect of all commitments.''
   State Department spokeswoman Phyllis Oakley said in Washington:
``The United States government strongly condemns this serious blow
to hopes for democracy in that troubled land.''
   Namphy's action halted, at least for now, the slow journey
toward democracy begun after President Jean-Claude Duvalier fled
the country Feb. 7, 1986, ending the 29-year dictatorship founded
by his father, Francois ``Papa Doc'' Duvalier.
   The general, who was Jean-Claude Duvalier's chief of staff, led
the junta that ruled Haiti until Manigat won a presidential
election this year with the army's help.
   Haiti, a nation of 6 million people and the poorest country in
the Western Hemisphere, shares the Caribbean island of Hispaniola
with the Dominican Republic.
   Manigat began his disastrous confrontation with the army, the
traditional base of power since independence in 1804, by removing
Namphy as commander on Friday. Manigat also reassigned two dozen
other officers Sunday, many of them Namphy's allies.
   He accused Namphy of insubordination for ordering the transfers
of several officers without presidential permission, including
Manigat's main military ally, Lt. Col. Jean-Claude Paul. The
barracks of Paul's command, the 700-man Dessalines Battalion, is
directly behind the National Palace.
   Paul, who has been indicted by a U.S. federal court on charges
of drug trafficking, was in the group standing around Namphy during
the television appearance Monday, but whether he had allied himself
with the general was unclear.
   The military announced a new Cabinet, dissolution of the
National Assembly and Namphy's intention to rule by decree.
   Col. Gary Leon, general secretary of the armed forces, read the
names of the Cabinet members on television. Gen. Williams Regala,
who was defense minister under Manigat and signed the order
retiring Namphy, will be minister of defense and interior.
   No public opposition greeted Namphy on his first day back in the
palace. There were no rallies for Manigat, whose political
headquarters was ransacked.
   The international airport in Port-au-Prince was closed, along
with most schools and businesses in the capital. Car and pedestrian
traffic was curtailed. Overseas telephone lines were closed down
and an employee at the government telephone company, Teleco, said
Namphy ordered it.
   Few soldiers were in the streets and there were no military
checkpoints.
   Namphy had been under house arrest but was freed Sunday night,
apparently with aid of the presidential guard and the Leopards
counter-insurgency unit using three tanks.
   Shooting began in front of the palace at about 7:30 p.m. Sunday
as the presidential guard and Leopards battled Paul's Dessalines
Battalion. At 1:30 a.m. Monday, Namphy announced the coup on
television in a broadcast from the palace.
   There were no official reports on casualties but Haitian
journalists said some soldiers loyal to Manigat were killed. U.S.
Embassy spokesman Jeffrey Lite said no Americans were injured.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0003 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 2346EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u a AM-DroughtRdp 1stLd_Writethru a0691 06-20 1153</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Drought Rdp, 1st Ld _ Writethru, a0691,1179</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Mississippi River Again Closed by Shallow Water</HEAD>
<HEAD>Eds.: Leads with 2 grafs and SUBS 14 grafs for grafs 8-13 bgng
``Agriculture Secretary ...'' to UPDATE with Jesse Jackson's
comments, futures prices and how some farmers are holding on to
grain despite possible windfall, announcement of another hot line.
Picks up 14th graf pvs ``The Mississippi ...''</HEAD>
<HEAD>LaserPhoto NS1</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By ROGER PETTERSON</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<TEXT>
   Shallow water halted barge traffic on the drought-pinched
Mississippi River again Monday, and officials in Ohio and Nebraska
set up ``hay hot lines'' to organize shipments of food to hungry
cattle in the Midwest.
   Commodities prices rose, and Democratic presidential candidate
Jesse Jackson called for a moratorium on farm foreclosures as dry
weather continued.
   Showers and thunderstorms teased farmers in some
drought-stricken areas but gave little relief, and temperatures on
the Plains reached for 100 degrees.
   ``This hot, dry pattern is going to continue, probably for the
rest of the month,'' said Richard May, a meteorologist for the
National Weather Service in Bismarck, N.D. ``There will be spotty
precipitation here and there.''
   ``Hay hot lines'' set up to help organize hay shipments from the
Midwest to help farmers in the South during a dry spell two years
ago are being restarted, but this time to move hay into the Midwest.
   Sen. David Pryor listened to stories of drought from dairy,
soybean and rice farmers Monday in his home state of Arkansas and
said he could offer them little comfort except assurances that
``this is a very, very high priority issue.''
   One soybean farmer in southwestern Arkansas said the ground was
so dry ``it was like planting in powder,'' said Pryor, a member of
the Senate Agriculture Committee and of a 16-member congressional
task force formed to deal with the drought. Other members toured
the Dakotas and Montana over the weekend.
   ``Looks like you're growing talcum powder,'' Pryor told one
farmer after scooping up a handful of soil.
   Jesse Jackson said Monday that debt-ridden farmers hit hard by
the drought could fall victim to land speculators.
   ``What we must do is declare a moratorium on foreclosures,''
Jackson said during a visit to the southeastern Minnesota farm of
Dale and Nancy Snesrud. ``There is nothing we can do about an act
of God. But we must stop an act of the devil.''
   Agriculture Secretary R.E. Lyng said Monday in New Orleans that
the worst threat to the agricultural economy exists in the Corn
Belt, the midwestern region where corn and corn-fed livestock are
raised. But problems also loom for Southern soybean growers.
   ``Corn is the most important crop in the United States. Soybeans
is second,'' Lyng said after a speech to the Institute of Food
Technologists convention. ``If those are lost who can say what it
will mean, it's never happened before.''
   Meantime, commodities prices were pressured still higher by the
drought. Grain and soybean futures prices jumped sharply higher
Monday on the Chicago Board of Trade. Wheat futures were influenced
less by the drought than were corn, oats and soybeans because the
winter wheat crop, which accounts for 75 percent of U.S.
production, is nearly finished growing and is being harvested.
   Despite the soaring prices, many farmers were hanging on to
their grain.
   Every day without rain could translate into more profit for some
farmers choosing to sit tight.
   Yet they are caught in a dilemma: should they sell now and hope
for a bountiful harvest that will replenish storage, or should they
hang on to what they have and risk losing money once it rains and
prices plummet?
   ``I think there's quite a few farmers just waiting for prices to
go higher. My father-in-law told me over the weekend that he sold
his beans a month ago and look what he could have gotten now,''
said Susan Anderson, a spokeswoman for the Iowa Farm Bureau.
   Nebraska farmers aren't as affected by the drought as some other
Plains states, and many of its farmers use irrigation.
   Calls for Nebraska hay have come from farmers in Wisconsin,
Missouri, Kansas and Iowa, said Lane Kugler, vice president of the
Nebraska Alfalfa Marketing Association. He said the association was
setting up a hot line.
   Another hay hot line was announced Monday by state officials in
Ohio, where farmers are scrambling for feed from as far west as
Kansas.
   ``We did this two years ago with the haylift (to the South). So
we're not new at this,'' said Alice Walters, spokeswoman for the
Ohio Agriculture Department.
   In Indiana, Purdue University will begin providing a toll-free
drought hot line and hay directory, too.
   The Mississippi River was blocked last week by shallow water and
sandbars near Greenville, Miss., and as many as 1,800 barges were
tied up and waiting by the time dredges completed a new
9-foot-deep, 300-foot-wide channel Saturday.
   But on Monday, shallow water near Gunnison, Miss., halted
shipping again Monday and the Army Corps of Engineers said it could
take as long as three days to dredge a deeper channel there.
   ``A tow went aground about 20 river miles above Rosedale early
Monday and fouled the river bottom,'' said Michael Logue, a
spokesman for the Corps at Vicksburg. ``Nothing's getting through
there at this point.''
   And Coast Guard Cmdr. Michael Donohoe said a low section of the
river six miles north of Memphis, Tenn., would be closed for
dredging and could stay closed for two days or more.
   The Mississippi is more than 20 feet lower than this time last
year and 40 to 50 feet below its springtime level, Donohoe said.
The section to be dredged was only 9 feet deep for about 1,000 feet
and its width was down from 500 feet to about 170 feet, he said.
   But traffic was flowing smoothly Monday through the Ohio River
near Mound City, Ill., where a seven-mile stretch was shut down
last week by shallow water, said Ron Blake of the Coast Guard in
Paducah, Ky.
   The Ohio reopened Saturday after a 2,100-foot channel was
dredged 11 feet deep by 250 feet wide. Blake said the Guard limited
tows to 10 barges each.
   Corps officials said that without rain on the parched Plains and
Midwest, the Mississippi will continue to fall.
   And on the Ohio, ``We are still in a critical situation that
without any relief by rain, we have to monitor extremely closely
for any hot spots,'' said Chuck Shumann of the Corps of Engineers
in Louisville, Ky.
   Environmental officials in Iowa ordered big irrigators to reduce
drawing water from sections of four rivers, and sections of several
others could be added if heavy rain doesn't fall in the next week
to 10 days, said Allan Stokes of the Department of Natural
Resources.
   Iowa officials also are concerned about the decreased ability of
shrunken rivers to carry and dilute pollutants, Stokes said, but
``we're not at any major crisis stage at this point.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0004 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 2350EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u w AM-DefenseProbe 3rdLd-Writethru a0799 06-20 1307</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Defense Probe, 3rd Ld-Writethru, a0799,1,240</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>URGENT</HEAD>
<HEAD>Carlucci Deciding Whether to Suspend Those Implicated</HEAD>
<NOTE>EDs: INSERTS 1 graf after 3rd graf to UPDATE with report that
Pentagon officials have decided to transfer Defense officials
implicated in investigation; INSERTS 1 graf after 9th graf pvs
bgng, `On other,' to UPDATE with report of three other defense
contractors acknowledging they have received subpoenas</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By NORMAN BLACK</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>AP Military Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Top Defense Department officials met Monday to
discuss whether to suspend deputies to the Navy and Air Force
secretaries and three other Pentagon officials implicated in a
defense contracting investigation, officials said.
   The officials, who insisted on anonymity, said a ``high-level
meeting'' was held Monday afternoon to discuss whether the Pentagon
employees should be suspended or moved to other jobs. The sources
declined to say whether Defense Secretary Frank C. Carlucci sat in
on the meeting, but said a final decision was expected after
another meeting Tuesday morning.
   ``They should have something to announce tomorrow,'' said one
source. ``The lawyers have been doing a lot of work.''
   The New York Times reported in Tuesday's editions that Pentagon
officials said Monday that the Defense Department officials under
scrutiny would be transferred to less sensitive jobs until the
investigation was completed.
   Monday's meeting came less than a week after federal
investigators served 38 search warrants on defense contractors,
military consultants and Defense Department officials in connection
with possible bribery and fraud in alleged leaks of classified
contracting infomation worth millions of dollars.
   The U.S. attorney who is coordinating the investigation, Henry
Hudson of the eastern district of Virginia, said 270 subpoenas have
been issued and that additional search warrants may be served.
   In a Senate speech, Sen. Charles Grassley, R-Iowa, rebuked the
Justice Department for halting 1985 testimony he said would have
revealed how defense contractors and private consultants were
illegally obtaining Pentagon weapons secrets. Attorney General
Edwin Meese III responded that the department has prosecuted
defense procurement cases vigorously and has never ``had to be
dragged into any indictment where the evidence is there.''
   Elsewhere, CBS News reported that three congressmen _ Reps.
Thomas Downey, D-N.Y., Andrew Ireland, R-Fla., and Sam Stratton,
D-N.Y. _ were under scrutiny in the case, but that there was not
yet enough evidence to make them targets of the investigation. CBS
said it got its information from law enforcement sources which it
did not identify. Downey's name had been mentioned first in
Monday's editions of The Washington Times.
   Spokesmen for Downey and Ireland said no government official had
contacted either congressmen or their offices in connection with
the probe. Downey blasted as ``wholly incorrect'' the newspaper
article linking him with the investigation. CBS News said
Stratton's office also said it had not been contacted.
   On other matters in connection with the probe, Meese refused to
say whether former Navy Secretary John Lehman Jr. was under
scrutiny in the investigation. Two of his former close aides,
Melvyn Paisley and retired Adm. James A. ``Ace'' Lyons have been
implicated in the probe.
   Meanwhile, The New York Times reported that three large military
contractors _ Hercules Inc., Gould Inc. and the Electronic Data
Systems Corp. _ said they had been served with subpoenas in the
probe. EDS spokesman Bill Wright told the newspaper that the
company had been informed that it ``is not a target of the grand
jury investigation.''
   Among the five Pentagon officials under scrutiny in the probe
are James Gaines, the deputy assistant Navy secretary for
acquisition management, and Dr. Victor Cohen, the deputy assistant
Air Force secretary in charge of buying tactical command, control,
communications and computer systems. Cohen's office was searched
last week.
   The others include two Navy employees _ George Stone, an
official in the Space and Naval Warfare Systems Command, and Stuart
Berlin, an executive with the Naval Air Systems Command _ and
Marine Corps official Jack Sherman, who works in the equipment and
service acquisition section of the contracts division, installation
and logistics department.
   ``They're trying to decide what to do with those (five) until
the next shoe drops,'' said one official.
   It could not be determined immediately Monday whether the
Pentagon also was considering suspending defense contractors from
bidding on new contracts if they had been implicated in the
investigation.
   Grassley, in his Senate speech, told of an incident in October
1985 when a Defense Department investigator about to testify on his
findings concerning procurement corruption was stopped from doing
so by a top Justice Department official who grabbed the microphone
away from him.
   The testimony would have revealed the contract bribery
allegations that became public just last week, Grassley said.
   Grassley, who was then chairman of a Senate Judiciary
subcommittee, said he halted the hearing after department official
Victoria Toensing interrupted the testimony of Pentagon
investigator Robert Segal. She said he was about to touch on areas
that concerned criminal matters pending against GTE Corp.
   ``I stopped the hearing at that point,'' Grassley said. ``I wish
now I hadn't. There wasn't anything in that testimony that could
have jeopardized that case.
   ``The public must be made aware of the fact that the Justice
Department was asleep at the switch,'' Grassley said, because it
was conducting a narrow investigation when Segal was finding
widespread abuse _ and possible bribery _ in defense procurement.
   Attempts to contact Segal on Monday were unsuccessful.
   Meese said a number of spinoff cases grew out of the GTE probe
which are being prosecuted. He did not identify them.
   GTE Corp. was not among the defense contractors searched by
federal officials last week.
   When asked about Segal's testimony that the department had not
vigorously pursued the passing along of confidential information,
Meese said that ``I can assure you that at no time has this
department had to be dragged into any indictment where the evidence
is there.''
   The attorney general said that since 1985, the defense
procurement fraud unit has obtained some 43 indictments and
criminal informations in significant cases, has obtained 35
convictions and has recovered some $32 million.
   Segal worked for the Defense Criminal Investigative Service, and
was Pentagon liaison with the Justice Department's Defense
Procurement Fraud Unit, a special office established to investigate
waste in the military budget.
   His testimony in 1985 would have said private consultants
regularly received classified Pentagon documents that should not
have been available outside the government, Grassley said.
   According to Grassley, Segal planned to say that ``many of these
(defense) companies appear to have espionage units whose main
function is to obtain copies of highly classified documents in
order to give their companies a competitive edge.''
   The testimony also said the GTE case was ``but the tip of the
proverbial iceberg. ... The investigation involves at least 25
companies. ... Many of those companies are household words. ... The
primary focus of the case is ... the indiscriminate distribution of
both proprietary and highly classified government documents by
individuals within and without the government.''
   Segal's planned testimony was released at the time, and prompted
a harsh Justice Department response afterward.
   ``The release by Senator Grassley's staff of erroneous,
misleading and inflammatory information about a criminal case that
is currently pending trial is most unfortunate and regrettable. ...
Justice must not be allowed to become a political football,'' the
department said.
   Grassley said he had not announced Segal's appearance in advance
because he believed there would be pressure on him from within the
government not to testify. He said Segal went to the Judiciary
subcommittee on administrative practices because he was frustrated
when officials at the Justice and Defense departments refused to
pursue his findings.
   ``I feel confident ... that ... Segal's testimony plays a key
role in lessons learned from current FBI probe,'' Grassley said.
``Prosecution only can be achieved when aggressive prosecutors ...
capture the reins of control from the Justice Department
bureaucracy.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0005 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0001EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u a AM-JailEscapees 1stLd-Writethru a0827 06-20 0310</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Jail Escapees, 1st Ld - Writethru, a0827,0313</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Two More Escapees Apprehended</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: Subs 3rd graf to restore name of jail</NOTE>
<DATELINE>FAYETTEVILLE, N.C. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Two more escapees, including an
ex-soldier who pleaded guilty in two Ninja-style slayings, were
captured Sunday, leaving one of six men who broke out of jail at
large, authorities said.
   Jeffrey K. Meyer, 21, and Jerry Ronald Pond Jr., 25, were
apprehended at Cliffdale Elementary School outside Fayetteville
just before noon, sheriff's spokesman Hershell Barbour said.
   Their capture came one week after Meyer, Pond and four others
cut through a steel bar in their fourth-floor cell block at the
Cumberland County Jail and used knotted sheets to crawl down the
wall.
   Meanwhile, the search for five Kentucky State Penitentiary
escapees expanded to Tennessee Sunday.
   Stewart County, Tenn., Sheriff David Hicks said his department
received a complaint Saturday night about three people trying to
flag down cars on a highway about 15 miles from Dover, Tenn., and
about 10 miles south of the Kentucky border.
   The area is about 50 miles southwest of the penitentiary, where
eight inmates escaped early Thursday. One escapee was captured
Friday, and two more were caught Saturday.
   In North Carolina, one escapee remained at large. The three
others had been captured earlier last week.
   Barbour said two police officers responded to an alarm at the
school, found Pond inside and caught Meyer outside. Neither man
offered any resistance, Barbour said.
   Meyer, a former soldier at nearby Fort Bragg, had pleaded guilty
in the slayings of Paul and Janie Kutz in rural Cumberland County
in December 1986. Dressed like a masked Ninja warrior, he cut their
throats and stabbed them repeatedly.
   Pond was charged in January with first-degree murder in the
slaying of Michael Velazquez, 23, a neighbor whose body was found
in a shallow grave behind a Fayetteville pawn shop.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0006 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0008EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i PM-Israel-Emigration     06-20 0418</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Israel-Emigration,0429</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Government Enforces Direct Emigration For Soviet Jews</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By SERGEI SHARGORODSKY</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>JERUSALEM (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The Cabinet has moved to turn the tide of
declining Soviet Jewish immigration by forcing Soviet Jews to
travel directly to Israel. But some recent arrivals said the new
measures might backfire.
   In a communique released after its weekly meeting Sunday, the
Cabinet said it decided to ensure, ``in the framework of legal
means available, that Jews who ask for an exit visa from the Soviet
Union in order to come to Israel would indeed reach Israel
directly.''
   Israeli officials have been greatly angered by the number of
``dropouts'' _ Soviet Jews with Israeli visas who choose to settle
elsewhere. In May, more than 90 percent chose to do so.
   Sunday's decision means Jews would be required to pick up their
Israeli visas in Bucharest, Romania. Once in Bucharest, the
emigrants would be made to fly directly to Israel.
   Under current arrangements, Soviet Jews get Israeli visas at the
Netherlands Embassy in Moscow. Most then leave through Vienna,
enabling them to travel to Western European countries or the United
States, where they are granted refugee status.
   Some prominent Soviet Jewish activists in Israel oppose the
measures, saying they might backfire and lead some Soviet Jews to
decide not to come.
   ``I'm afraid that when we start to bring to Israel Jews who
don't want to live in Israel, the damage will be greater,'' said
Natan Sharansky, the human rights activist freed in 1986 after
serving nine years in Soviet labor camps.
   A senior U.S. Embassy official said the decision appeared to
contradict the United States' position supporting freedom of travel
for Soviet Jews.
   ``Our standing position is in favor of freedom of travel,'' said
the official, who requested anonymity. ``The Secretary (of State
George Shultz) has stated that a number of times.''
   According to the government-sponsored Public Council for Soviet
Jewry, only 18 percent of the 4,695 Soviet Jews permitted to leave
the Soviet Union in the first five months of 1988 have settled in
Israel. Of the 1,169 Jews who left the Soviet Union in May, only
9.9 percent came to Israel.
   In April, Jews in Moscow said they began receiving official
emigration papers from Israel that permitted only travel to
Bucharest and Tel Aviv.
   Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir defended the Cabinet decision
Sunday: ``Every other decision would be interpreted by Soviet Jews
as treason and support for the dropouts,'' he was quoted as saying
on Israel radio.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0007 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0031EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r w PM-Drought-WaterQuality Bjt   06-20 0624</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Drought-Water Quality, Bjt,620</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Falling Water Levels Raise Contamination Danger</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By RANDOLPH E. SCHMID</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   City, farm and industrial waste continues to
pour into the nation's rivers and streams even as the waterways
shrivel from drought, increasing the danger of contaminated water
across the country.
   Drought has reduced the Mississippi River to its lowest flow in
years and dropped the St. Lawrence below normal for the first time
in two decades, according to the U.S. Geological Survey.
   Low stream flows are reported in the Northwest and Southeast,
the Great Plains and in California _ threatening drinking water and
aquatic life, scientists warn.
   Ben Jones, assistant regional hydrologist for the Geological
Survey in Menlo Park, Calif., said ``common sense would tell you
that if you have less flow in a stream, there is less dilution of
whatever components are being carried by that stream.''
   He cited recent complaints from Northern California that large
concentrations of sewage discharge have appeared in streams.
   Normally these streams have enough water to handle the treated
sewage, Jones said. But because of dry conditions, the volume of
sewage suddenly exceeded that of clean water.
   In recent days the drought-induced low water in the Mississippi
and Ohio rivers has attracted attention by stranding barges. But it
also has concentrated pollutants in the two rivers, which take the
runoff from much of the nation.
   Bob Meade of the Geological Survey's Denver office recently
returned from a water-quality survey of the Mississippi. He said
one problem scientists found was a broken sewer in Memphis that was
spewing thousands of gallons of ``floatable solids'' into the river.
   Meade's detailed pollution measurements won't be completed for
months, but he concurred with Jones that reduced river flows
increase the concentrations of chemicals such as nitrates and
herbicides.
   Warm weather and low water levels lead to stress on much aquatic
life, added Gary Pederson, a Geological Survey hydrologist in
Atlanta.
   Warmer water can hold less dissolved oxygen, Pederson said,
meaning there is less oxygen for fish and other aquatic life.
   Oxygen also helps clean the water, he added, so low water
increases the chances of toxicity.
   The Geological Survey's monthly analysis of the nation's streams
and rivers showed that flows were already below normal in May in
the Pacific Northwest, California, the Great Plains and the
Southeast.
   Millions of Americans also depend on ground water, the great
underground pools tapped by wells.
   ``As a drought deepens and strengthens, people tend to go more
and more to ground water supplies as a source,'' Jones said. In
some cases they may start to pump water from underground aquifers
which are not normally used.
   Ground water is already more concentrated with minerals because
of its longer contact with them, he said.
   ``There are other effects also, kind of peripheral to water
quality itself,'' said Jones. ``For example, if the drought should
go on for years, there are areas which might have to worry about
subsidence of land.''
   Drawing water out of the underground aquifers can lead to sudden
sinkholes. Jones cited examples in California and Arizona.
   Land subsidence has also been a problem in other areas including
Houston and other cities near the Gulf Coast and in Florida.
   Another potential problem, said Jones, is that as water supplies
shrink, soil can become too salty. That problem has been reported
in parts of the Southwest.
   Meade said that while low water increases much pollution, it
also can ease some types.
   Low water increases the concentration of pollutants dissolved in
the water itself, but may reduce those that attach themselves to
sediment particles, such as trace metals, DDT and PCBs, he said.
   High water tends to stir up the sediment and carry it
downstream, he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0008 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0032EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r w PM-AfricanIncome     06-20 0466</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-African Income,450</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>African Debts Rising, Income Dropping</HEAD>
<HEAD>With PM-Summit-Debt</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By CARL HARTMAN</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Incomes have dropped in 44 African countries
so far this decade, while debt there is rising faster than anywhere
else in the world, the International Monetary Fund reports.
   In the 1980s the average incomes of people in the 44 countries
have dropped a little every year except 1985 and 1986. Last year
they dropped again, by six-tenths of a percent.
   The 44 ``sub-Saharan'' countries lie sandwiched between North
Africa, which is somewhat better off, and South Africa, which is
much more prosperous. The IMF reports that the debt of the 44 rose
from $21 billion in 1976 to nearly $138 billion last year.
   Noting the trends, the world's seven wealthiest nations agreed
Sunday at their summit in Toronto to take steps to ease the African
debt burden. Officials at the summit described the plan as a
mixture of loan write-offs, debt rescheduling and concessionary
interest rates.
   West Germany already had forgiven over $50 million dollars owed
by the Central African Republic, Togo, Guinea, Sierra Leone and
Sudan.
   In the most prosperous of these five, Sudan, the average citizen
had an income in 1986 equal to $320 _ than a dollar a day.
   Although Latin American nations have bigger debts, the African
debts weigh more heavily because those countries are poorer. The
IMF report said they need more grants and easy loans from
industrial countries.
   It also said the African nations themselves need to use their
resources more efficiently and increase savings.
   ``While many debtor countries are already implementing rigorous
adjustment programs, others have yet to make the necessary
commitment,'' it said.
   Many governments refuse to ask for loans from the IMF because
the programs it has required in return cut the incomes of their
poorer citizens even further. President Kenneth Kaunda of Zambia,
for example, accepted such a program but then changed his mind when
bloody riots followed food price increases.
   Five of the 44 sub-Saharan nations account for more than half
the debt: Ivory Coast, Nigeria, Sudan, Zaire and Zambia. Nigeria,
Sudan and Zambia are also among those furthest behind in their
payments.
   Only four can get any money from commercial banks: Nigeria,
Ivory Coast, Gabon and Congo. They will be expected to make
payments of $9.4 billion a year this year and next, but have
actually only been paying an average $4.7 billion over the past
four years.
   The rest will owe governments $9 billion a year for the current
two-year period, but have been paying only $3.8 billion.
   All during the 1980s, only 12 of the 44 have been able to keep
up with what they owe.
   The IMF report blamed ``adverse historical and natural
circumstances, depressed commodity prices, and poor economic
policies.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0009 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0043EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r w PM-AirSafety Bjt   06-20 0885</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Air Safety, Bjt,850</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>New Rule Said To Leave Commercial Air Traffic In Danger</HEAD>
<HEAD>With BC-Airports List</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By H. JOSEF HEBERT</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Some aviation safety experts and the airlines
say a new requirement aimed at easing the threat of collisions near
airports still leaves commercial jets exposed to danger from small
planes.
   The Federal Aviation Administration rule announced last week
calls for sharply expanding the airspace in which small, private
planes must have equipment that tells controllers their altitude.
FAA officials predict it will result in a significant increase in
air safety.
   But critics of the final regulation accuse the FAA of scaling
back their proposed requirements too far by requiring the new
equipment only if planes fly within 10 miles of airports in most
parts of the country. Only at the busiest facilities will the
equipment be required for 30 miles around the airports.
   ``We thought (the FAA rule) was going to go much further,'' Jim
Burnett, chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board, said
in an interview. He called the aspect of the regulation that
applies to 116 airports with moderately busy air traffic ``clearly
inadequate'' to protect jetliners from small planes.
   The Air Line Pilots Association, which represents 40,000 pilots,
and the Air Transport Association, the trade group for the
airlines, joined in the criticism, although FAA officials called
the rule a significant safety improvement.
   ``It brought some improvement, but didn't go as far as it should
have,'' said John Mazor, a spokesman for the pilots union.
   The ATA issued a statement saying the new requirement for small
planes, all of which does not go into effect until after 1990,
``clearly does not go far enough. ... The potential for conflicting
incidents (between aircraft) remains.''
   The FAA rule, announced last Thursday, was an outgrowth of the
1986 collision of a small Cessna and an Mexican airliner over
Cerritos, Calif., in which 82 people were killed. The small plane
had no device which would show controllers its altitude on the
radar screen.
   After the accident, aviation safety advocates and members of
Congress began calling for private planes flying in the same
airspace with commercial jets to have so-called Mode-C transponders
that provide controllers with altitude information.
   Last February the FAA suggested a sweeping rule that would have
required the equipment on all planes flying within 40 miles of 254
airports and above 6,000 feet.
   The suggestion unleashed a storm of protest, including 80,000
complaint letters to Congress and the FAA from private pilots, who
argued their freedom to fly was being threatened. The devices cost
from $600 to $2,000 per aircraft.
   The FAA's final rule rolled back the number of airports covered
to 143 and the airspace to a 30-mile radius around the busiest
airports and a 10-mile radius around 116 mid-sized airports. In
other airspace it lowered the floor for such equipment from 12,500
feet to 10,000 feet, but not to the 6,000 feet previously suggested.
   The critics said they are not alarmed by the FAA narrowing its
new requirements to more than 100 fewer airports. But they are
critical of the FAA limiting the airspace in which small planes
must have the Mode-C equipment to a 10-mile radius around 116
airports with moderately heavy air traffic.
   ``There will be a significant part of every approach (at these
airports) where the airplane and passengers will be exposed to
airspace where other aircraft will be operating with no requirement
for them to report their altitude to air traffic control,'' said
Stephen Hayes, a spokesman for the Air Transport Association.
   The airlines and commercial pilots say it typically takes a
jetliner about 25 miles to climb to 10,000 feet and that
controllers often begin routing a plane below 10,000 feet about 30
miles from an airport.
   Under the new regulations, commercial jets will continue to mix
with private planes without Mode-C transponders for 15 to 20 miles
in and out of these airports, said Hayes.
   The airports with moderately heavy air traffic are those
currently within so-called Airport Radar Service Areas, or ARSAs,
for air traffic purposes plus two specially designated airports
that also have no such restrictions but have a level of commercial
traffic where the FAA had some concerns.
   Burnett complained the same requirement should have been
extended to the mid-sized airports as was imposed around 27
airports within 23 so-called terminal radar control areas, or TCAs.
   The restricted areas are shaped like upside-down wedding cakes.
Around the mid-sized airports, small planes without transponders
will be restricted from a five-mile radius between the ground and
10,000 feet. Between five and 10 miles outside the airports, the
restrictions will apply between 1,200 and 10,000 feet.
   Burnett and other critics expressed dismay at that, saying
airspace below 1,200 feet should be restricted in all cases around
these airports.
   While it is unlikely that jetliners will fly that low beyond 5
miles of an airport, Burnett said, failure to apply the
restrictions to those low levels will continue to confuse
controllers.
   When they see a plane flying in that area, but without
indicating altitude the controller will assume it is below 1,200
feet and legal when, in fact, it may be at a higher altitude in
violation of the rule and potentially in conflict with commercial
traffic, he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0010 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0046EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i PM-Summit-EconomicsAtLast Bjt   06-20 0668</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Summit-Economics At Last, Bjt,630</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>WASHINGTON WIRE: With No World Crisis, Summiteers Have To Talk
Economics</HEAD>
<HEAD>An AP News Analysis</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By BARRY SCHWEID</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>AP Diplomatic Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>TORONTO (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   When leaders of the industrialized democracies
hold summits, foreign policy issues have a way of pushing
exchange-rate levels, interest-rate worries and other dry but vital
financial concerns off to the side.
   But for President Reagan's ``last hurrah'' _ this is his final
summit _ the focus finally is on what these annual economic
meetings were designed to be about: economics.
   In fact, the joint statement of the leaders' views on world
affairs was being released later today, leaving the rest of the
summit clear for concentration on economic matters.
   For the first time, a session on economic issues launched the
summit Sunday after glittering arrival ceremonies. At the outset,
Reagan made an appeal for eliminating agricultural subsidies _ the
hottest economic issue here _ and will return to the topic before
Tuesday's adjournment.
   ``Believe me, it's going to be discussed,'' the president told a
reporter as he posed for pictures with the other leaders before
dinner. He is determined to end the subsidies by the year 2000, and
faces stiff European resistance.
   At the opening session, British Prime Minister Maragaret
Thatcher supervised a review of economic trends since the first
summit was held in 1975.
   And while global politics, including a report by Reagan on his
talks in Moscow with Soviet General Secretary Mikhail S. Gorbachev,
were the theme at the leaders' dinner Sunday night, no tough
international issue loomed for the three-day meeting.
   In fact, in another agenda change, the talks today were
beginning with a roundtable on the global outlook _ without the
distraction of non-economic issues.
   ``We wanted to put the focus back on economics,'' said Derek
Burney, chief of staff for the summit host, Canadian Prime Minister
Brian Mulroney.
   That is not the way it has been in the past.
   Last year, for instance, the Iran-Contra scandal shadowed
Reagan's talks with the other leaders in Venice, Italy, and only at
the last minute was a denunciation of South Africa's racial policy
excluded from the windup communique. The war in the Persian Gulf
between Iran and Iraq attracted far more attention than interest
rates and growth projections.
   In 1986, in Tokyo, terrorism took precedence over economics as
Reagan and Mrs. Thatcher persuaded their partners to issue a
forceful anti-terrorism statement.
   In 1985, French President Francois Mitterrand kept the
summiteers from endorsing Reagan's controversial program for a
space-based missile defense, while in 1984 outgoing Canadian Prime
Minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau sought futilely to persuade the
leaders to support disarmament.
   And in 1983, despite Trudeau's drive for nuclear arms
reductions, Reagan won endorsement of the U.S. installation of new
missiles in Western Europe.
   World leaders can get worked up over economic issues as much as
they do over terrorism and disarmament. At this summit, there could
be a row over agricultural subsidies, with Reagan and Mulroney
lined up against Mitterrand and West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl
in trying to phase them out.
   But the issue may be bucked to the General Agreement on Trade
and Tariff talks in Montreal in December.
   There will be some serious debate about how to ease the debt
burden on Third World countries.
   Mitterrand is pushing a plan to cancel one-third of the official
debt of the poorer countries in the context of a 10-year
rescheduling agreement. Nigel Lawson, the British chancellor of the
exchequer, is urging a different approach: converting some loans to
grants and rescheduling and reducing interest rates.
   But even in the economic sphere, the theme of Reagan's finale
is: Don't rock the boat. The world outlook seems rosier than it has
been in years, and with elections looming in the United States and
in Canada, the host country, dry statistics and quiet discussion
will be just fine with everyone.
</TEXT>
<TEXT>
   EDITOR'S NOTE: Barry Schweid, head of the AP's State Department
staff, is covering his fourth economic summit meeting.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0011 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0047EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i PM-Summit-Notebook Bjt   06-20 0729</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Summit-Notebook, Bjt,730</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>No Free Lunch, No Contamination and Almost No Smoking</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By SALLY JACOBSEN</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>TORONTO (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney, the
genial host of the seven-nation economic summit, declined to
partake in the food and drink pavilions set up for hungry reporters
and delegates at the gathering.
   Mulroney toured the ``tent city,'' called Toronto Summit Square,
where journalists can eat all they want, round-the-clock and free
of charge.
   Asked if he had come by for a free lunch, the prime minister
reflected and replied: ``Is there such a thing?''
</TEXT>
<TEXT>
   The European Community, the dozen European nations that form a
trading bloc, apparently doesn't like being taken for granted.
   The community is the eighth, and often overlooked, delegation to
the annual economic summit of industrialized democracies.
   Willy De Clercq, the bloc's commissioner for external relations
and trade policy, bristled when told a spokesman for another
delegation had implied the EC worries, especially concerning
agricultural subsidies, were given less weight because their
leaders were not elected.
   De Clercq told a news conference that the remark was a ``a very,
very characteristic example of lack of understanding and
comprehension, not to say knowledge about what the European
Community is.''
   ``Elected or not elected, the only body who decides agriculture
policy is the community as such ...''
   ``The reality is the reality and you can believe me that is the
situation, if you like it or not, and I like it,'' said De Clerq.
</TEXT>
<TEXT>
   Canadian reporters have drawn the word ``scrum'' from the rugby
glossary and added it to the journalism lingo.
   As Mulroney toured the press area at the Metropolitan Toronto
Convention Center, he was surrounded by a mob of reporters waving
microphones, snapping pictures and shouting questions.
   ``Mulroney is having a slowly moving scrum through the
convention center,'' observed Paul Gessell, a reporter for the
Ottawa Citizen.
   Scrum, Canadians explained, is sort of like a wedge in U.S.
football. The forward linemen lock arms and heads in a fearsome
drive to resume play.
   In journalism, it refers to an impromptu news conference.
</TEXT>
<TEXT>
   As he left a welcoming ceremony with Mulroney, President Reagan
was asked whether he was embarrassed by the banana yellow tie that
Treasury Secretary James A. Baker III was wearing.
   ``It's Father's Day. It's the season for wild ties,'' Reagan
replied.
</TEXT>
<TEXT>
   If the Reagans haven't had time to consult their astrologer,
they can read what the stars hold for him in a local newspaper, the
Toronto Sun.
   The daily's astrologer, Eugenia Last, is keeping track of the
charts of all seven summit leaders.
   On Monday, she said, the 77-year-old president's ``need to
portray stamina and strength will be his main concern.''
   The U.S. president ``will have a great deal to offer,'' she
said, adding that the ``the likelihood of his being able to set a
precedent remains to be seen.''
   She had more specific advice for Mulroney.
   He should, she advised, ``take immediate action moving toward
his objectives in essence, plant the seeds of the future through
suggestion, then sit back.''
   Former White House chief of staff Donald Regan wrote in a book
this spring that Mrs. Reagan regularly consulted an astrologer
about the president's schedule.
</TEXT>
<TEXT>
   Reporters covering British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher were
intrigued and somewhat insulted to hear security agents refer to
some of them as being ``contaminated.''
   Some sought an explanation of the pollution problem.
   It turns out that after undergoing a rigorous security check,
the reporters were supposed to be ``quarantined'' until the end of
the event they were covering.
   If the reporters came in contact with someone who had not yet
been cleared, they were considered ``contaminated'' and in need of
yet another security check.
</TEXT>
<TEXT>
   Mulroney complained to Japanese Premier Noboru Takeshita that
Japan refuses to allow direct commercial flights between Canada and
Japan.
   ``We have very little land space. We have no room in our
airports,'' Takeshita explained to the host of the 14th annual
economic summit.
   ``That's OK, we'll use small planes,'' quipped Mulroney.
</TEXT>
<TEXT>
   Toronto prides itself on having the toughest anti-smoking law in
North America. Smoking is prohibited in all public buildings. Well,
almost all.
   The law has been eased this weekend to allow reporters,
delegates and others attending the economic summit to pursue their
habits in the Metropolitan Toronto Convention Center, normally
considered a public building.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0012 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0048EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i BC-Summit-Text     06-20 0445</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-Summit-Text,430</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>With PM-Summit Rdp Bjt</HEAD>
<DATELINE>TORONTO (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Here is the text of a statement issued Sunday by
Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney on behalf of the summit
leaders. It was read by Canadian Finance Minister Michael Wilson:
   The leaders have had an excellent and free-wheeling discussion,
led off by a far-ranging statement by Prime Minister Margaret
Thatcher. This was followed by a vigorous and comprehensive review
of major concerns of President Reagan, Chancellor Kohl, President
Mitterrand, Prime Minister Takeshita, Prime Minister De Mita and
President Delors.
   The idea of holding an initial working session among leaders has
clearly proved its worth. There was a productive and spontaneous
discussion which lasted about three-quarters of an hour longer than
had been anticipated. The discussion has given a focus to the
agenda and an opportunity for each leader to indicate their
priority concerns.
   The leaders are all conscious that this is the end of the second
cycle of summits. Since the last summit in Canada, in 1981, great
progress has been made in restoring and sustaining growth, winding
down inflation and facilitating structural reforms.
   Cooperation through summits has facilitated these results. The
response to the Oct. 19 stock market crisis, and the
better-than-expected performance of the world economy since then
show just how far this cooperation has developed and succeeded. It
has generated renewed confidence in financial markets.
   The leaders agreed, though, that there is no room for
complacency. Difficult challenges remain.
   On macroeconomic policies, our countries must develop further
our economic coordination efforts. Sound policies must be continued.
   On trade, they all agreed to resist protectionism and insure the
midterm review in Montreal gives a strong signal of progress.
   The Canada-U.S.A. free trade agreement was strongly welcomed, as
was the European Community Internal Market Initiative.
   On agriculture, concern was expressed at the market distortions
and budget costs posed by agricultural subsidization, both for
ourselves and the LDCs (lesser developed countries). There is a
need for impetus to the continuing efforts of reform. On that, the
leaders recognized their joint responsibility with the LDCs to find
solutions.
   For the poorest countries, they agreed to focus on new debt
relief options.
   They've also touched on other issues such as the environment,
population growth and technology.
   In sum, this has been a most useful opening to the deliberations
of the leaders.
   Although we as leading industrialized nations still face
challenges, we all feel we've made real progress in recent years.
Our message is and should be one of confidence and optimism in
dealing with the challenges confronting us.
   All this has in large part stemmed from the cooperation among
us, as symbolized by this meeting in Toronto.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0013 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0051EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i PM-Summit-Glance     06-20 0749</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Summit-Glance,710</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>With PM-Summit Rdp Bjt</HEAD>
<DATELINE>TORONTO (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Here are the highlights of the opening session
Sunday of the 14th summit of industrialized democracies:
</TEXT>
<HEAD>___</HEAD>
<HEAD>SUMMIT-THEME</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   _The leaders concluded their first session of the 14th annual
economic summit with a declaration that ``our message is and should
be one of confidence.''
   Canadian Finance Minister Michael Wilson, speaking on behalf of
Prime Minister Brian Mulroney and the summit leaders, described the
meeting as a ``productive and spontaneous discussion.'' But Wilson
also said the leaders agreed that ``there is no room for
complacency. Difficult problems remain.''
   He said they agreed that ``our countries must develop further
our economic coordination efforts. Sound policies must be
continued.''
   Specifically, he said, ``The response to the Oct. 19 (Wall
Street) stock market crisis, and the better-than-expected
performance of the world economy since then show just how far this
cooperation has developed and succeeded.''
   On trade, Wilson said, they all agreed to resist protectionism
and to insure that a midterm review in Montreal gives a strong
signal of progress.
</TEXT>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
<HEAD>___</HEAD>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
<HEAD>SUMMIT-THIRD WORLD</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   The leaders agreed in principal to grant wide-ranging debt
relief measures to the poorest countries of Africa. A British
official, saying the United States had softened its position, said
the leaders reached a ``general agreement to action'' based on a
mixture of write-offs of loans, rescheduling of debt and
concessionary interest rates.
</TEXT>
<HEAD>___</HEAD>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
<HEAD>SUMMIT-ARRESTS</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   More than 100 arrests were reported by the time authorities
cleared the streets after many demonstrators hurled themselves over
the barricades and into the arms of blue-suited police tactical
squad officers. The fracas occurred a mile from where the leaders
were meeting.
   The demonstrators, dressed in colorful garb, espoused a host of
causes ranging from opposition to U.S. aid to the Nicaraguan Contra
rebels to urging more help for victims of the deadly AIDS disease.
</TEXT>
<HEAD>___</HEAD>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
<HEAD>SUMMIT-REAGAN</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   President Reagan, attending his last economic summit, signaled
that he would not press his case for ending all agricultural
subsidies by the year 2000, instead letting the issue slide until
the end of the year. ``We're going to meet and discuss all of these
things,'' Reagan said at the outset of the talks.
   Later, Reagan said about the meeting, ``We just had a lot of
things to talk about.'' He said they talked both about foreign
policy and economic issues, and that reducing agricultural
subsidies was still on the agenda. ``Believe me, it's going to be
discussed,'' Reagan said.
</TEXT>
<HEAD>___</HEAD>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
<HEAD>SUMMIT-CHAIRMAN MULRONEY</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney, the host of the meeting,
pledged at the beginning that ``we will work hard.'' He banged his
gavel down hard several times to get photographers, cameramen and
reporters to leave the room so the formal talks could begin among
the leaders of the United States, Japan, Britain, West Germany,
France, Italy and Canada.
</TEXT>
<HEAD>___</HEAD>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
<HEAD>SUMMIT-THATCHER</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   Security fears were underscored by the arrest of Michael Derrick
Collins, suspected of being a low-key Irish Republican Army
operative, on charges of overstaying his visa. Collins, 31, is
being sought by authorities in British-run Northern Ireland,
according to a spokesman for British Prime Minister Margaret
Thatcher. Officials said they were not worried about any immediate
threat to the prime minister.
</TEXT>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
<HEAD>___</HEAD>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
<HEAD>SUMMIT-CEREMONY</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   Each of the vistors was welcomed one-by-one earlier at a
ceremony featuring the honor guard of the 48th Highlanders militia,
clad in kilts and black bonnets and playing bagpipes and drums.
   But behind the pageantry, a 3,000-person security force was
deployed on the ground, on rooftops and in helicopters to protect
the leaders as they met in a windowless underground room in a
convention center, sealed off by concrete barriers and a high
chain-link fence.
</TEXT>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
<HEAD>___</HEAD>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
<HEAD>SUMMIT-REAGAN-MITTERRAND</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   Reagan and Mitterrand met for 35 minutes in a downtown hotel
just before the first session, discussing disarmament and the
challenge of improving education in their countries, said French
spokesman Hubert Vedrine.
   Reagan asked Mitterrand, re-elected last month, what his
priorities were for his second seven-year term, and the French
president replied that his top concerns were education, research
and training.
</TEXT>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
<HEAD>___</HEAD>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
<HEAD>SUMMIT-THATCHER-KOHL</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   Mrs. Thatcher apologized to Kohl for the hooligan behavior of
British soccer spectators in West Germany and urged stiff jail
sentences, officials said.
   ``Mrs. Thatcher apologized deeply. She was very upset and very
angry,'' West German government spokesman Friedhelm Ost told
reporters after Mrs. Thatcher and Kohl held a 55-minute private
meeting before the first summit session.
</TEXT>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
<HEAD>___</HEAD>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0014 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0055EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r w PM-DefenseProbe-Chronology     06-20 0603</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Defense Probe-Chronology,560</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>With PM-Defense Probe Bjt</HEAD>
<HEAD>How the Story Unfolded</HEAD>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Events in the investigation of alleged
procurement fraud and bribery involving government officials,
defense contractors and consultants:
</TEXT>
<TEXT>
   TUESDAY, JUNE 14: Pursuing what FBI spokesman Gregory Jones
calls ``allegations of fraud and bribery,'' FBI and Naval
Investigative Service agents raid the offices of Pentagon
officials, defense contractors and consultants.
   More than 30 locations are searched in 12 states and the
District of Columbia. Law enforcement sources say the searches are
part of a two-year probe that has included wiretaps.
   Targets include Melvyn Paisley, a former assistant Navy
secretary who became a consultant to several aerospace contractors
immediately upon leaving the Pentagon. Also searched are the
Pentagon offices of Victor Cohen, a top Air Force acquisitions
official, and James Gaines, deputy assistant Navy secretary for
acquisitions, as well as offices and plants of some of the
country's largest defense contractors including McDonnell Douglas
Corp. in St. Louis, United Technologies Corp. in Washington and
Unisys Corp. in Minneapolis and New York.
</TEXT>
<TEXT>
   WEDNESDAY, JUNE 15: Government sources say that the office
telephones of Cohen and Gaines were tapped. White House spokesman
Marlin Fitzwater says President Reagan did not learn of the massive
investigation until Tuesday.
</TEXT>
<TEXT>
   THURSDAY, JUNE 16: A search warrant issued in the investigation
states that McDonnell Douglas improperly received large amounts of
confidential Pentagon information from Paisley. Law enforcement
officials say some 275 subpoenas have been served.
   Attorney General Edwin Meese III says indictments may be handed
down in 30 to 90 days. Sources say Meese was not told of the probe
until late March because his name came up on a wiretap.
</TEXT>
<TEXT>
   FRIDAY, JUNE 17: Reps. Roy Dyson, D-Md., and Bill Chappell,
D-Fla., deny reports that they are involved amid reports that the
office of at least three House members were put under scrutiny.
   Two more defense contractors _ LTV Corp. and Martin Marietta
Corp. _ acknowledge that they have been served with subpoenas.
</TEXT>
<TEXT>
   SATURDAY, JUNE 18: A second search warrant reveals that the FBI
believes that Pratt & Whitney obtained confidential documents that
rival jet engine maker General Electric Co. had given to the
Defense Department in bidding for engine contracts worth hundreds
of millions of dollars.
   The warrant is used to search the offices of Eugene Tallia, vice
president of Pratt & Whitney and head of the company's Washington
office.
   Sources tell The Associated Press that U.S. Attorney Henry
Hudson, who is heading the investigation, answered, ``No comment''
when asked by Sen. Charles Grassley, R-Iowa, whether former Navy
Secretary John F. Lehman Jr. is a target of the probe. Newspaper
reports, quoting unidentified sources, say investigators have
uncovered evidence that Lehman learned of the probe and warned
Paisley that he was under investigation. Neither could be reached
for comment.
   The Los Angeles Times and The Baltimore Sun report that also
under investigation are activities of the late Rep. Joseph Addabbo,
D-N.Y., who was chairman of the House Appropriations defense
subcommittee.
</TEXT>
<TEXT>
   SUNDAY, JUNE 19: Four members of Congress who oversee
procurement policies say management problems _ and a ``good old boy
network'' in the Reagan administration _ are at fault.
   Sen. Sam Nunn, D-Ga., chairman of the Senate Armed Services
Committee, said he knew ``we did not have the kind of people in the
Pentagon at high levels that really had background in management.
We had people being selected for their ideological beliefs, for
their salesmanship, but not for good sound management.''
   Reagan, attending an allied summit meeting in Toronto, declines
to comment on the reports about Lehman having tipped off Paisley.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0015 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0057EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r w PM-SearchWarrant     06-20 0617</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Search Warrant,580</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Document Suggests Inside Knowledge of Competition's Offer</HEAD>
<HEAD>With PM-Defense Probe Bjt</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By TIM AHERN</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Investigators in the Pentagon bribery probe
are seeking documents concerning Pratt & Whitney's use of a pair of
defense consultants to help win contracts for two major jet engine
programs.
   A search warrant seeking documents from Pratt & Whitney says the
company may have written its bids on the contracts with secret
knowledge about what its chief competitor was proposing to the
government.
   The warrant, obtained by the trade paper Defense Week and made
available to The Associated Press, was signed last week by U.S.
District Judge John H. Pratt.
   The four-page warrant permitted the FBI to search the office of
Eugene Tallia, vice president of Pratt & Whitney and head of the
company's Washington office. Pratt & Whitney is a subsidiary of
United Technologies, the nation's eighth-largest defense
contractor. The parent company has declined to comment other than
to say it is cooperating with the investigation.
   P&W hired Melvyn Paisley within a week after Paisley resigned in
April 1987, as assistant secretary of the Navy for research,
engineering and systems.
   The company also hired William Galvin, another consultant
closely associated with Paisley.
   The search warrant seeks documents, notes, reports and other
materials that Paisley and Galvin provided to Tallia.
   Specifically, the warrant targets P&W's effort to develop
engines for the JVX, an experimental plane under development by the
Pentagon, and the F@A-18, the twin-engine jet that will be the
Navy's top fighter for the rest of the century.
   General Electric and Pratt & Whitney are the nation's two major
builders of aircraft jet engines and the Air Force and Navy are two
of their prime customers.
   General Electric originally had a monopoly contract to provide
an engine, known as the 404, for the F@A-18, but the Navy, seeking
to drive down costs through competition, asked Pratt & Whitney to
build a prototype so it could compete.
   Pratt & Whitney has since been picked as the second supplier of
404 engines. In the past two years, P&W has won $316 million worth
of 404 contracts from the Navy.
   The warrant asks P&W to provide ``copies of General Electric's
proposals to the government on the 404 and JVX projects or any
other documents containing information which should not have been
released from the government.''
   Sen. Sam Nunn, D-Ga., chairman of the Senate Armed Services
Committee, said Sunday that ``competition is supposed to foster
lower prices. This is basically a threat to competition; this is a
corruption of competitive features that have been emphasized both
from Congress and the Department of Defense.''
   Nunn, speaking on ABC-TV's ``This Week with David Brinkley,''
said the investigation of possible corruption in Pentagon
procurement practices involves ``stifling competition. Most of the
effort here was to keep the competitive processes from working
properly by having specifications.'' He did not mention the P&W
case by name.
   ``Allegedly they (the specifications) were designed for one
company,'' Nunn said. ``Well, other companies can't really compete
successfully by having inside information leaked to one company
where they will know that they can ease up their bid and charge the
government more and still win the low bid. That's exactly the
opposite of competitive practices.''
   The search warrant, while seeking to discover what Pratt &
Whitney knew about GE's bid on the two engine projects, also seeks
data about P&W's offer on the same program.
   It asked for ``notes, memoranda, correspondence and other
documents relating to Pratt & Whitney's proposal to the government
on the 404 and JVX projects _ or contacts between Pratt & Whitney's
employees and United States government employees on those
projects.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0016 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0100EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r w PM-BoatTowing     06-20 0516</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Boat Towing,510</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Coast Guard Modifies Boat Towing Policy; Critics Unsatisfied</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By CHRISTOPHER CALLAHAN</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Boat owners and coastal lawmakers are not
satisfied with the Coast Guard's latest attempt to draft a policy
on towing disabled vessels, despite recent concessions by the
agency.
   Under intense pressure from Congress and boat owners, the Coast
Guard recently modified the non-emergency towing policy that had
left recreational boaters with little choice but to use costly
commercial towers when their vessels broke down.
   But critics say the new policy still unduly favors commercial
towers and can subject owners whose boats break down to needless
expense and delay.
   ``It's very disappointing,'' said Michael Sciulla, vice
president of Boat Owners Association of the United States, a group
representing 250,000 recreational boat owners. ``They've chosen to
ignore the pleas of thousands of recreational boaters.''
   The towing policy was created in 1982 as a way to boost the
fledgling commercial towing industry. Under that policy, Coast
Guard officials would call a commercial operator by telephone to
tow a disabled boat back to harbor.
   Boat owners complained that the policy eliminated the chance for
good Samaritans, friends and the Coast Guard Auxiliary to tow them
back for free. And owners charged that they were sometimes forced
to wait hours for busy towers.
   The policy also sunk morale at the auxiliary, as volunteers who
were anxious to help fellow boaters were forced to sit at the dock
while commercial towers handled the non-emergency situations. ``How
would you like it if you were a volunteer fireman and you couldn't
go out and put out a fire?'' Sciulla asked.
   The Coast Guard held a series of public hearings to modify the
policy and earlier this month issued the long-awaited guidelines.
   Under the new policy, Coast Guard officials will send a marine
radio broadcast about a disabled boat, giving good Samaritans the
chance to respond as well as commercial operators. And if no one
responds to the call within 10 minutes, or if the tow operator
cannot be at the scene within one hour, then the Coast Guard
Auxiliary would be dispatched, according to Coast Guard Capt. Ken
Hollemon.
   The changes, however, are not enough for boating enthusiasts.
   ``It keeps these volunteers chained to the dock for a minimum of
an hour before they can respond,'' Sciulla said. ``At the same
time, it requires a boat ower, who can be out there with a kid
who's screaming and a wife who's getting seasick, to be out there
longer.''
   Gene Hammel, an aide to Rep. Earl Hutto, D-Fla., chairman of the
House Merchant Marine Coast Guard subcommittee, agreed that the new
policy is not sufficient and predicted Congress may consider
legislation expanding the auxiliary's role.
   Even the Coast Guard is apparently not satisfied with the change.
   Adm. Paul A. Yost Jr., the guard's commandant who publicly
sympathized with the boaters' plight, backed a towing policy that
would have allowed auxiliary volunteers to respond to a call
immediately, but that was scuttled by Reagan administration
officials at the Transportation Department, according to one
government source.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0017 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0100EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i PM-Summit-RookiesandVeterans     06-20 0335</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Summit-Rookies and Veterans,320</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>De Mita Summit Rookie, Thatcher Breaks Attendance Record</HEAD>
<HEAD>With PM-Summit Rdp Bjt</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By RUTH SINAI</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>TORONTO (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Italian Prime Minister Ciriaco De Mita is the
rookie at this year's economic summit, while Margaret Thatcher of
Britain is breaking attendance records at the annual seven-nation
gathering.
   Mrs. Thatcher, in office since 1979 and re-elected to an
unprecedented third term in 1987, is attending her 10th summit.
``There's no one else who's into double digits,'' said her
spokesman Bernard Ingham. The runner-up is President Reagan, who is
attending his eighth and final summit.
   In deference to Mrs. Thatcher, Canadian Prime Minister Brian
Mulroney _ the host of this year's gathering _ asked her to lead
off the discussions when the leaders gathered Sunday for the first
session. She outlined for her fellow leaders the previous 13
summits with a perspective few of the others can share.
   Noburo Takeshita of Japan is attending his seventh economic
summit, although it is his first as prime minister. He attended
other summits as the Japanese finance minister.
   ``He has a lot of experience,'' said Japanese Foreign Ministry
spokesman Koichi Haraguchi.
   Takeshita, who took office last Nov. 6, has held bilateral
meetings with Reagan and Mrs. Thatcher, as well as French President
Francois Mitterrand.
   De Mita, in office since April, has had no experience at the
annual economic meeting, but did serve as minister of foreign trade
in the 1970s.
   ``He's had one month of briefings'' on more recent foreign
economic developments and is ``very well prepared,'' said his
spokesman, Nazarro Pagani.
   In his two months in office, De Mita has met several of the
summit leaders. Last week he sat next to West German Chancellor
Helmut Kohl at a European Soccer Cup match between their two
countries, and then flew to Washington to call on Reagan.
   He met with Mrs. Thatcher for the first time Sunday morning,
``and found her a very sympathetic woman, even though she is a
Conservative,'' Pagani said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0018 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0103EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r w BC-AirportList     06-20 0388</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-Airport List,400</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>With PM-Air Safety Bjt</HEAD>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Here are the airport areas subject to new
requirements for altitude-tracking equipment aboard small, private
planes, according to the Federal Aviation Administration.
   At 23 terminal control areas, planes must have Mode-C
transponders after July 1, 1989 if flying within 30 miles of the
airport:
   Atlanta; Boston; Chicago (O'Hare); Cleveland, Dallas-Fort Worth;
Denver; Detroit; Honolulu; Houston; Kansas City, Mo.; Las Vegas,
Nev.; Los Angeles; Miami; Minneapolis-St. Paul; New Orleans; New
York (LaGuardia, JFK and Newark); Philadelphia; Pittsburgh; St.
Louis; San Diego; San Franciso; Seattle-Tacoma, and Washington
(National).
   Airports where planes must have Mode-C transponders after Dec.
30, 1990 when flying within an Airport Radar Service Area, or ARSA:
   ALABAMA: Birmingham, Huntsville, Mobile.
   ALASKA: Anchorage.
   ARIZONA: Davis-Monthan AFB, Phoenix, Tucson.
   ARKANSAS: Little Rock.
   CALIFORNIA: Beale AFB, Burbank, Castle AFB, McClellan AFB, March
AFB, Mather AFB, Norton AFB, Oakland, Ontario, Sacramento, Santa
Ana.
   CONNECTICUT: Windsor Locks (Bradly International)
   FLORIDA: Daytona Beach, Fort Lauderdale, Fort Myers,
Jacksonville, Orlando, Palm Beach, Pensacola Naval Air Station,
Pensacola (regional), Sarasota, Tallahassee, Tampa, Whiting AFB.
   GEORGIA: Columbus, Savannah.
   HAWAII: Kahului
   IDAHO: Boise
   ILLINOIS: Champaign, Chicago (Midway), Springfield.
   INDIANA: Evansville, Fort Wayne, Indianapolis, South Bend.
   IOWA: Cedar Rapids, Des Moines.
   KANSAS: Wichita.
   KENTUCKY: Covington, Lexington, Louisville.
   LOUISIANA: Barksdale AFB, Lafayette, Shreveport.
   MAINE: Portland.
   MARYLAND: Baltimore (BWI)
   MICHIGAN: Flint, Grand Rapids, Lansing.
   MISSISSIPPI: Columbus, Jackson.
   NEBRASKA: Omaha, Offutt AFB.
   NEVADA: Reno.
   NEW JERSEY: Atlantic City.
   NEW MEXICO: Albuquerque.
   NEW YORK: Albany, Buffalo, Islip, Rochester, Syracuse.
   NORTH CAROLINA: Charlotte, Fayetteville, Greensboro, Pope AFB,
Raleigh.
   OHIO: Columbus, Dayton, Toledo.
   OKLAHOMA: Oklahoma City, Tinker AFB, Tulsa.
   OREGON: Portland.
   PENNSYLVANIA: Allentown.
   PUERTO RICO: San Juan.
   RHODE ISLAND: Providence.
   SOUTH CAROLINA: Charleston, Columbia, Greer, Shaw.
   TENNESSEE: Chatanooga, Knoxville, Nashville, Memphis.
   TEXAS: Abilene, Amarillo, Austin, Corpus Christi, Dallas (Love
Field), Dyess AFB, El Paso, Houston (Hobby), Laughlin AFB, Lubbock,
Midland, San Antonio.
   UTAH: Salt Lake City.
   VERMONT: Burlington.
   VIRGINIA: Chantilly (Washington Dulles International), Richmond,
Norfolk, Roanoke.
   WASHINGTON: Fairchild AFB, Spokane
   WISCONSIN: Madison, Milwaukee
   (Note: There are no airports with ARSA airspace in Colorado,
Delaware, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Missouri, Montana, New
Hampshire, North Dakota, South Dakota, West Virginia and Wyoming.)
   Two airports have been specially ``designated'' as falling under
the regulation prohibting planes without Mode-C equipment within 10
miles after Dec. 30, 1990 even though they have no ARSA airspace:
Billings, Mont., and Fargo, N.D.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0019 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0103EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i PM-Summit-FashionShow     06-20 0389</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Summit-Fashion Show,380</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Summit Spouses Treated to Glittering Fashion Show</HEAD>
<HEAD>With PM-Summit Rdp Bjt</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By RUTH SINAI</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>TORONTO (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   While their husbands charted the course of world
events, five first ladies were treated to a dazzling display of
fashion _ from supreme funk to queenly elegance.
   Off-the-shoulder and on, above the knee and below, models
paraded 13 collections by Canadian designers before the summit
spouses and some 300 business magnates and community leaders.
   From silk to brocade, from voile to burlap, the models sashayed
down the runway at the Royal Ontario Museum to rhythmic music and
pealing bells.
   Nancy Reagan, flanked by Hannelore Kohl of West Germany and Mila
Mulroney of Canada, drew almost as much applause as the models when
she got up, leaned across the runway and retrieved a glittering
earring. She then handed it to the model who had dropped the jewel.
   Naoko Takeshita of Japan and Anna Maria De Mita of Italy exuded
smiles only when two children's wear collections were shyly
displayed by little girls as young as 5.
   Mrs. Reagan raised her eyebrows at some of the more outrageous
costumes, like a jacket with protruding cloth flowers and
vegetables, or a gold lame outfit with snake-like strips slithering
to the ankles.
   Canadian cover girl Monika Schnaarre displayed a magnificent
ankle-length black-and-red satin creation by Alfred Sung, one of
the country's best-known designers. Another model strolled down the
runway in a full-length white Canadian mink coat.
   Men's fashions were also on display. One collection of 10
tuxedos drew giggles from Mrs. Reagan and Mrs. Kohl, who huddled,
their heads close, appearing to discuss the models.
   At the show's finale, five little girls handed each of the first
ladies a bouquet of flowers and were rewarded by kisses and hugs.
   Absent from the gathering, which began with a dinner hosted by
Mrs. Mulroney, were three spouses who stayed home: the wife of
European Community President Jacques Delors, the wife of French
President Francois Mitterrand and Margaret Thatcher's husband,
Denis.
   As at all events of the three-day economic summit, security for
the spouses was extremely tight. Reporters were kept in a roped-off
area, prevented from mingling with the guests or getting near the
wives.
   ``They're just as vulnerable as their husbands,'' said one
security officer who asked not to be named.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0020 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0106EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a PM-People-Still     06-20 0129</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-People-Still,0133</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Appalachian Writer Honored</HEAD>
<DATELINE>MOREHEAD, Ky. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Writer James Still, a chronicler of life in
Appalachia, was honored by Morehead State University with its first
Appalachian Treasure Award.
   ``I was astonished,'' Still, 82, said in a telephone interview.
``It was a great honor.''
   The award, dedicated to promoting and preserving Appalachian
culture, was presented Sunday at the 12th annual Appalachian
Celebration, a summer festival featuring traditional music, dance,
storytelling, peotry and arts and crafts.
   Still, 82, has been called the ``psalmist of the mountains'' for
his stories and poems about Appalachia. His first work was a 1937
book of poems, ``Hounds on the Mountain.'' His first novel, ``River
of Earth,'' was published in 1940, followed by a book of short
stories, ``On Troublesome Creek,'' in 1941.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0021 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0135EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i PM-Summit-Security Bjt   06-20 0584</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Summit-Security, Bjt,560</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Amid Extraordinary Security, Arrests, IRA Scare, Reagan Red Alert</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By JEFF BRADLEY</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>TORONTO (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Riot police charged chanting protesters, a
suspected Irish Republican Army operative was detained and a ``red
alert'' delayed President Reagan's motorcade as the economic summit
began with a host of security problems.
   A 3,000-strong security team, comprised of eight police and
defense forces, has responsibility for protecting the world
leaders, 1,500 officials and 3,000 reporters at the seven-nation
meeting.
   In unprecedented scenes for this peaceful city, a special summit
tactical squad was deployed Sunday when about 1,500 protesters
defied police orders and tried to march to summit headquarters
after a song-filled rally.
   They wanted to deliver a citizen's warrant for the arrest of
Reagan and the six other summit leaders for alleged ``crimes
against humanity'' ranging from U.S. backing for the Nicaraguan
Contras to ignoring the world's poor.
   When armed police blockaded University Avenue, the broad
thoroughfare leading to the summit venue, about 60 protesters
hurled themselves over crowd control barriers and were grabbed by
the riot squad.
   Supporters chanted ``Arrest the G-7,'' referring to the summit
group, and ``Arrest the real terrorists.''
   One demonstrator burned an American flag while others ignited
cardboard caricatures of the leaders and set light to newspaper
boxes containing USA Today and the Wall Street Journal.
   After three hours, SWAT teams backed by six mounted policemen
linked arms and swept across the intersection, shouting ``Move,
move, move'' as they advanced. About 30 demonstrators sat in the
roadway and sang ``Give Peace a Chance'' before they were dragged
away.
   Police said 138 were arrested, one on assault charges and the
others on charges of breaching the peace.
   Security fears were underscored by the arrest in Toronto of
Michael Derrick Collins, 31, suspected of being a low-level IRA
operative, on charges of overstaying his visa. Collins is being
sought by police in British-run Northern Ireland, according to a
spokesman for Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher.
   Mrs. Thatcher narrowly escaped injury in an IRA bombing in 1984.
   James McAllister, an elected official of Sinn Fein, the IRA's
political wing, addressed the anti-summit demonstration and later
told reporters he did not know Collins. He said it was unlikely the
IRA would plan any attack on the Toronto summit.
   ``When they get Maggie, they'd prefer to get her on her own
ground _ Ireland or Britain,'' said McAllister.
   Two smaller protest groups appeared outside the 15-foot-high
fence around the city's convention center, where the leaders meet.
About 100 Canadians of Croatian descent demonstrated against
alleged persecution of Croatians in Yugoslavia, and eight Japanese
Buddhist monks in saffron robes chanted for peace.
   A ``red alert'' was declared as Reagan's motorcade took him from
Toronto airport to downtown, causing his armored limousine to slow
down. White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater explained later that
security forces had spotted a man carrying a bag marked
``ammunition'' _ but it turned out to contain only his lunch.
   And there was a minor accident along the motorcade route as
Reagan left the Royal York Hotel to a town square to be greeted by
Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney.
   A white canvas tent that had been erected in front of the hotel
to shelter the president's limousine became snagged on a bumper of
one of the motorcade vehicles as the motorcade pulled out.
   The tent collapsed and was dragged into the street, but no one
was injured. The tent was quickly cleared away and the motorcade
continued on its way.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0022 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0143EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a PM-Names     06-20 0706</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Names,0734</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Names In The News</HEAD>
<HEAD>LaserPhoto NY14</HEAD>
<DATELINE>NAUGATUCK, Conn. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Vietnam veterans held a conciliatory
meeting with actress Jane Fonda, then began taking down signs
promoting the sale of bumper stickers that read ``I'm not Fond'a
Hanoi Jane.''
   About 25 Connecticut and Massachusetts veterans met Saturday
night with Fonda, who angered U.S. soldiers in Vietnam when she
traveled to North Vietnam in 1972.
   The meeting followed protests by some veterans of her plans to
film part of a movie near here this summer.
   Fonda apologized on national television last week for hurting
veterans with some of her anti-war activities, including posing for
photos next to a North Vietnamese anti-aircraft gun during the trip
to Hanoi and saying prisoners of war were lying about having been
tortured.
   Brian Powell, who served in Vietnam in 1969-70, said Fonda told
the veterans that ``in her anti-war passion she did some things
that were very stupid and very hurtful to Vietnam veterans.''
   Powell, 37, said Fonda's message was ``she was not anti-veteran,
she was anti-war.''
   Fonda said in a statement Sunday that she had wanted to meet
with local veterans since January, when protests heated up over her
plans to film ``Union Street'' in nearby Waterbury and in Holyoke,
Mass.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>Eds: language in 4th graf, ``Then the ...'' may be offensive to</NOTE>
<TEXT>
   some readers.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>CHICAGO (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Activist Abbie Hoffman says he was booted off a
Continental Airlines plane at O'Hare International Airport after a
stewardess wrongly accused him of smoking marijuana in the lavatory.
   Friday's incident occurred after Hoffman boarded a flight for
Newark, N.J., the 51-year-old former Yippie leader said in a
telephone interview Sunday from Northampton, Mass., where he was
attending an anti-nuclear rally.
   Hoffman said he went into the lavatory minutes before takeoff.
Suddenly, fire alarm bells started ringing.
   ``Then the stewardess pushes in the door with her knee like a
storm trooper, and starts shouting, `You've been smoking
marijuana!''' Hoffman said. ``I said, `Like hell, bring on the
dogs. I'm not smoking anything.'''
   Hoffman said he was ordered off the plane, was briefly
questioned by an official, then allowed to board Continental's next
flight to Newark.
   Ned Walker, a Continental spokesman, said it was company policy
not to release passenger names, but confirmed that a male passenger
was ordered off the flight.
   He said crew members and passengers ``smelled a burning odor
coming from the lavatory'' after smoke alarms went off while the
plane was refueling.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Elvis Presley's maroon nylon underpants, Michael
Jackson's fedora and Bob Dylan's handwritten lyrics were among the
mound of rock 'n' roll memorabilia that fetched more than $500,000
on the auction block.
   The parcel of Presley's personal items, including the
underpants, an electric razor, hairbrush and black socks, went for
$605, said Laura Stewart, a spokeswoman for Sotheby's auction house.
   A Gibson model J-200 guitar Presley used in the late 1950s and
early 1960s sold for $27,500, the top price paid at Saturday's
auction, Ms. Stewart said.
   Jackson's autographed fedora sold for $4,125.
   Dylan's handwritten lyrics for ``I Want You'' went for $8,800, a
John Lennon gray wool suit fetched $3,300 and one of Lennon's
guitar straps sold for $8,250, she said.
   About 30 bidders and more than 300 spectators gathered to see
226 lots of memorabilia that sold for $533,477, Ms. Stewart said.
The T.J. Martell Foundation for Leukemia, Cancer and AIDS Research
received $127,600 of the proceeds, she said.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>BOSTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Humorist Erma Bombeck said she could sense many of
the students attending Northeastern University's commencement were
worried venturing out into the world for the first time.
   ``I tend to agree with ... Woody Allen who, when he was asked if
he wanted to live forever in the hearts of his contemporaries,
said, `I just want to go on living in my own apartment,''' Bombeck,
51, told a near-capacity crowd Sunday at Boston Garden.
   The newspaper columnist and author encouraged the nearly 2,460
undergraduates to relish life's commonplace events during their
pursuit of success.
   ``Success isn't some large plateau of champagne wishes and
caviar dreams. Success is a condition that dwells inside of every
one of you and surfaces in your life when you least expect it.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0023 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0151EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r p PM-Jackson 1stLd-Writethru a0425 06-20 0545</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Jackson, 1st Ld-Writethru, a0425,500</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Jackson Says Defense Controversy Reads Like A Bad Movie Script</HEAD>
<NOTE>EDs: Subs 3rd graf pvs, bgng Jackson is, to restore Dukakis' first
name; picks up 4th graf, Dukakis and xxx; Stands for PM-Political
Rdp</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By DONNA CASSATA</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Democratic presidential contender Jesse
Jackson took aim at the growing Pentagon scandal, saying it reads
``like a Class C Hollywood script.''
   In a speech here Sunday, Jackson criticized the alleged
corruption and fraud in Defense Department weapons-buying, while
summing up the accomplishments of his campaign.
   Jackson is officially continuing his presidential bid, even
though Michael Dukakis has a numerical lock on the Democratic
nomination.
   Dukakis and Republican George Bush took a day off from
campaigning Sunday. The Massachusetts governor spent the day in
Boston and the vice president was at home in Washington.
   The defense investigation, a nationwide probe involving private
defense consultants, Pentagon officials and defense contractors,
was made public last Tuesday as agents searched 38 office and homes
to find evidence of bribes and gratuities paid for disclosure of
confidential contracting information.
   The information allegedly gave recipients a competitive edge in
submitting bids for contracts.
   ``This is beginning to read like a Class C Hollywood script,''
Jackson said in a speech to Citizen Action. ``Key consultant
working for Boeing receives a $100,000-plus bonus for going to the
Navy ... a golden handshake for future services. Scene 1.''
   Jackson continued his description of the federal probe:
``Forty-five of the top 100 (defense contractors) under criminal
investigation. The defense industry employs 6 million people _
holding them hostage. A $150 billion business a year. ... Revolving
door _ contractors and the Pentagon.''
   The Democratic candidate said the military budget can be trimmed
``without cutting our defense. This corruption, waste and cost
overruns will not make us more secure.''
   Jackson also criticized spending money to defend Europe and
Japan four decades after World War II. ``Let Europe and Japan share
more of their defense,'' he said.
   Citizen Action describes itself as a national political
organization dedicated to citizen participation in economic and
political decisions. The group, which advocates primarily liberal
causes, counts suburbanites and blue-collar workers among its 1.5
million members in 24 states.
   The Democratic candidate, citing the frequently asked question
``What Does Jesse Want?'' said better queries would be ``What has
Jesse built? What have we built? What do we represent?''
   Jackson pointed to his primary season successes in Vermont,
Alaska, Puerto Rico and Delaware, his close to 7 million popular
votes and his ability to build a nationwide coalition.
   ``The issue, my friends, is not the trite issue of `What does
Jesse want?''' he said.
   ``In Atlanta, take our positions to the floor. ... We might
challenge and inspire a nation to get a mandate,'' said Jackson.
``Unity in July, victory in November.''
   Earlier in the day, Jackson held a private meeting with about 30
national convention delegates who are members of the Association of
Community Organizations for Reform Now, also known as ACORN.
   The delegates, who are pledged to Jackson, came from around the
country to discuss plans for the July 18-21 Democratic convention
in Atlanta. The group later joined hands with Jackson and posed for
photographers.
   ``This is unity,'' the candidate said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0024 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0208EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a PM-Obit-Spellman     06-20 0441</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Obit-Spellman,420</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Former Congresswoman Dies After Eight-Year Coma</HEAD>
<DATELINE>ROCKVILLE, Md. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Former Rep. Gladys Noon Spellman was
remembered by her colleagues as a tireless worker for Maryland who
earned admiration across political boundaries before a heart attack
left her in a coma on the eve of her final election.
   Mrs. Spellman died Sunday at the Hebrew Home of Greater
Washington after being in a coma for eight years. She was 70.
   She never regained consciousness after suffering a heart attack
Oct. 31, 1980, days before she was easily elected to a fourth term
from the 5th District outside Washington, D.C.
   Mrs. Spellman, a Democrat, spent much of her three terms in
Congress pushing hard for road improvements and benefits for
federal workers.
   ``Her contributions have made life better for all Marylanders,
not just those living in her district,'' said Bob Douglas,
spokesman for Gov. William Donald Schaefer. ``Mrs. Spellman was a
determined, hard-working representative of Maryland who refused to
give up.''
   ``She was probably one of the best Maryland public servants in
terms of constituent services, from fixing potholes to the great
coup of getting the federal government to pay for paving the
Baltimore-Washington Parkway, which was no easy task,'' said Sen.
Barbara Mikulski, D-Md.
   The parkway linking the two cities 35 miles apart was renamed
the Gladys Noon Spellman Parkway in 1982.
   Mrs. Spellman, of Laurel, Md., was campaigning for re-election
when her heart stopped beating on Oct. 31, 1980. Four days later,
she was re-elected with 80 percent of the vote over Republican
Kevin R. Igoe.
   The House seat was declared vacant in February 1981 after
doctors said Mrs. Spellman, who was able to breath without
life-support equipment, was in a ``trance-like state'' and unable
to take the oath of office.
   It was the first time the House vacated the seat of a member who
had become mentally or physically disabled.
   Democrat Steny Hoyer won a special election May 19, 1981 after a
primary that included 32 Republican and Democratic candidates,
including Mrs. Spellman's husband Reuben.
   Her fellow Maryland representatives said Mrs. Spellman's
strength was in working with other members to gain improvements for
her district.
   ``It didn't matter what party you were in. You loved and
respected her,'' said Parren Mitchell, former Democratic
congressman from Maryland.
   Born in New York City on March 2, 1918, Mrs. Spellman began her
political career in 1962 when she was elected to the Prince
George's County Board of Commissioners.
   She was first elected to Congress in November 1974.
   She is survived by her husband and three children, Stephen
Louis, Richard Eric and Dana Spellman O'Neill, in addition to four
grandchildren.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0025 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0209EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i PM-Summit-Cambodia     06-20 0361</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Summit-Cambodia,350</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Message From Cambodia Resistance Leader Seeks `Peacekeeping' Force</HEAD>
<HEAD>With PM-Summit Rdp Bjt</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By W. DALE NELSON</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>TORONTO (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Japanese Prime Minister Noboru Takeshita brought
to the seven-nation economic summit a message from Cambodian
resistance leader Norodom Sihanouk calling for an international
peacekeeping force to secure ``the freedom, sovereignty and safety
of Cambodia.''
   The message also called for an end to all forms of assistance to
Vietnam, Japanese delegation press officer Koichi Haraguchi said in
a briefing early today.
   Haraguchi said Takeshita briefly mentioned Sihanouk's message at
a dinner meeting of presidents and prime ministers attending the
summit Sunday night. He said Japanese Foreign Minister Sosuke Uno
spelled out the details in a separate meeting with his counterparts.
   Haraguchi said Japan might make a non-military contribution to a
United Nations peacekeeping force. He said the Japanese would also
consider a financial contribution toward the resettling of
Cambodian refugees.
   Among the foreign ministers, he said, ``I would say there was
basic support for Prince Sihanouk and basically the atmosphere was
to support his message.''
   Haraguchi said that Sihanouk's message, as outlined by Uno, said
free elections were not feasible under either the Cambodian
government installed by Vietnam after its 1978 invasion or under
the Khmer Rouge, the strongest rebel force.
   ``Even if Vietnamese forces make a concrete withdrawal,
Sihanouk's forces will not be able to secure the freedom,
sovereignty and safety of Cambodia unless strong international
peacekeeping forces are introduced,'' the message as reported by
Haraguchi said.
   ``It is high time for the international community to put an end
to the situation of the invasion of Cambodia and the violation of
human rights,'' Sihanouk was quoted as saying.
   ``To secure withdrawal, the mst effective and peaceful means is
to stop all forms of economic assistance to Vietnam,'' Haraguchi
quoted Sihanouk as telling the foreign ministers.
   The government of Cambodian Premier Hun Sen, the three guerrilla
factions, Vietnam, and other nations are preparing to attend peace
talks in Jakarta, Indonesia, in July.
   The makeup of a new government was a key point of contention
that led to the break-off in previous talks between Hun Sen and
Sihanouk.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0026 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0216EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u i BC-Japan-Stocks     06-20 0028</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-Japan-Stocks,0028</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Stocks Slide in Tokyo</HEAD>
<DATELINE>TOKYO (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The Nikkei Stock Average closed at 28,139.03
points, down 203.43 points, on the Tokyo Stock Exchange on Monday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0027 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0258EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>b i AM-Haiti 7thLd-Writethru a0466 06-20 0891</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Haiti, 7th Ld - Writethru, a0466, a0469, a0470, a0472,</2ND_LINE>
<TEXT>
   a0461,0914
</TEXT>
<HEAD>URGENT</HEAD>
<HEAD>RETRANSMITTING</HEAD>
<HEAD>Troops Loyal To Namphy Seize Control</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: COMBINES urgent series. EDITS to tighten. No pickup.</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By ED McCULLOUGH</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<TEXT>
   PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti (AP) _ Lt. Gen. Henri Namphy broke out of
house arrest Sunday night and his troops seized the presidential
palace and unseated civilian President Leslie Manigat, who had
ousted him as military chief.
   An Uzi submachine gun in his right hand, a helmeted Namphy
declared on state-run television early Monday that the army was in
control.
   ``The army will lead the country this way,'' the fatigue-clad
Namphy shouted, raising his weapon in the speech from the
presidential palace, which was taken in a gun and grenade battle.
   He made no mention of Manigat, who had fired him on Friday
during a power struggle that split Haiti's military leadership.
   Government sources said Manigat was taken by ambulance from his
residence five miles north of the palace to a military hospital.
There was no word on his condition, but a journalistic source close
to the military said Manigat would be expelled from the country
early Monday. He did not name a destination.
   The military ran the January balloting, widely criticized as
rigged, that saw Manigat elected.
   Namphy, surrounded by helmeted soldiers, refused to discuss the
battle between his troops and those loyal to Manigat.
   In the seven-minute speech that ended about 1:30 a.m. EDT, he
said: ``We will not speak of what happened. We are looking ahead.
We love the army, the regular army, the army loves the people and
the country.''
   He spoke in Creole.
   Namphy, 55, looked fatigued and said he was ailing. When he
finished, an army band broke into the national anthem.
   A Western diplomat said soldiers of the presidential guard loyal
to Namphy had battled troops loyal to Manigat, who was seized at
his residence. There was no word on casualties.
   Earlier Sunday, Manigat retired the Port-au-Prince police chief
and transferred about two dozen officers, including the head of the
presidential guard.
   At about 8:30 p.m. EDT, power went out for about 10 minutes, and
gunfire broke out around the presidential palace. Heard from a
hotel two blocks away, it died down then surged again shortly after
midnight, when explosions were also heard, and ended about 1{ hours
later.
   The streets of this Caribbean capital of 1 million were deserted.
   ``The presidential guard went to get Namphy and brought him to
the palace,'' said the Western diplomat, who spoke on condition of
anonymity.
   The diplomat said the presidential guard had battled troops of
the 700-man Dessalines Battalion, which is commanded by an Lt. Col.
Jean-Claude Paul, whom Namphy tried to reassign last week to an
administrative job.
   The journalistic source close to the military said Paul was with
his troops inside Dessalines Barracks, which is adjacent the
presidential palace, surrounded forces loyal to Namphy and refused
to surrender.
   Earlier Sunday, Namphy was under house arrest at his walled-in
residence compound in Bon Repos, 15 miles north of the capital.
   Manigat retired Namphy as commander in chief of Haiti's
7,000-man army on Friday, charging him with insubordination in
ordering the transfer of lower-ranking officers three days earlier.
   The transfer and retirement orders launched a power struggle
that aligned Manigat with Paul.
   Namphy was president of the three-man junta that ruled Haiti for
two years after dictator Jean-Claude Duvalier fled to exile in
France in February 1986. The junta was disbanded after Manigat's
government was installed.
   Manigat was elected on Jan. 17.
   An independently run election Nov. 29 was thwarted by widespread
violence that left more than 30 people dead and the army made no
effort to stop.
   Paul's soldiers were blamed for much of the violence. And he was
indicted in March by a U.S. grand jury in Miami and charged with
drug trafficking.
   Manigat said last week the objectives of his government were
``democratization, modernization and putting the armed forces at
the service of the country.'' Skeptics said it was unclear if that
would be possible.
   The government announced Sunday that Col. Gregoire Figaro, the
police chief of Port-au-Prince, would be retired and Col. Prosper
Avril, head of the presidential guard, would be reassigned to an
administrative post.
   Figaro took over as police chief from Col. Albert Pierre, who
Namphy allowed to flee to exile in Brazil despite public
accusations he killed and tortured pisoners. Figaro also was
unpopular.
   Avril, now chief of military attaches, was an adviser to the
military-led junta until anti-government demonstrations forced him
to resign that post in early 1986.
   The government announced the changes in a three-page communique
broadcast on state-run television. The communique said the moves
were authorized by Namphy's replacement, Brig. Gen. Morton Gousse,
but gave no further explanation.
   These were among the other transfers ordered Sunday:
   _Capt. Isidore Pognon, commander of Fort Dimanche, a military
garrison where thousands of political opponents were sent during
the 29-year dictatorship begun by Francois ``Papa Doc'' Duvalier in
1957 and continued by his son, was transferred to military
headquarters.
   _Maj. Henry Robert Augustin, Namphy's former aide, was put in
charge of the army's dry cleaning and laundry services.
   _Capt. Ernest Ravix, military commander of the north coastal
town of St. Marc through which much illegal contraband passes, was
transferred to the remote southwestern province of Grand' Anse.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0028 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0301EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a PM-Singleton-Tampa Bjt   06-20 0653</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Singleton-Tampa, Bjt,0677</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Worried Neighbors Call Meeting, Collect Signatures To Oust Rapist</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By PAT LEISNER</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>TAMPA, Fla. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Word that rapist-mutilator Lawrence Singleton
has moved to a quiet neighborhood here has triggered fear and
outrage mirroring the reaction in six California towns he was
forced to flee after his parole last year.
   People are collecting petition signatures, and have called a
meeting for tonight in hopes of getting Singleton to leave. A radio
station and a car dealership have offered the Tampa native $10,000
and a one-way ticket to clear out.
   ``A lot of people around here are angry, hostile and afraid. We
want to avoid vigilante behavior and mistakes,'' said Art Lawrence,
a parole officer and father of two teen-agers in the Forest Hills
neighborhood.
   Singleton, 60, gave authorities a Forest Hills address last week
in complying with state law requiring felons moving to Florida to
register a residence. The address belongs to Singleton's brother,
Walter.
   Walter Singleton says his brother isn't living with him and
won't reveal where he is. However, some residents are convinced
Lawrence Singleton is living in their quiet, middle-class
neighborhood.
   Singleton was convicted of raping a 15-year-old hitchhiker,
chopping her arms off with an ax and leaving her for dead near San
Francisco in 1978. The gray-bearded former merchant seaman spent
eight years of a 14-year sentence in a California prison.
   ``We have somebody with a record of brutality and perversion who
has not surfaced,'' Lawrence said Saturday. ``Mothers are telling
their kids to beware of men with beards. How disruptive this is to
a community!''
   ``He's going to have a hard time living anywhere,'' added Forest
Hills retiree Robert Hosack. ``He might as well be in jail.''
   Hillsborough County sheriff's Col. Cal Henderson said
authorities cannot force Singleton out.
   California residents protested when their communities were
mentioned as potential homes for Singleton during his year on
parole. He was forced to flee six towns, and eventually wound up in
a mobile home on the grounds of San Quentin prison.
   When his parole ended in April, he was a free man.
   At tonight's meeting, residents plan to discuss what legal
recourse, if any, they have in order to force Singleton to leave.
They have invited police and elected officials.
   Hundreds of signatures seeking Singleton's ouster have been
collected on petitions circulated by Forest Hills residents, said
Lawrence. The petitions will eventually be presented to officials,
he said.
   ``Legally, he has a right to be where he wants to be,'' said
resident Lester Heitlinger. ``And I want him to have his rights,
but I don't want him to have his rights in my neighborhood. I don't
want to have to worry about an ogre living near.
   ``My wife and I saw him out walking at 8:10 the other morning,''
said Heitlinger, who lives a half mile from Walter Singleton. ``I'm
absolutely positive it was the same face I saw in the newspaper.''
   However, Winston Whittle, who lives across the street from
Walter Singleton, said he hasn't seen Lawrence Singleton.
   ``He's got no reason to lie,'' Whittle said of Walter Singleton.
``He couldn't be hiding his brother inside forever.''
   Whittle said he's had two mailboxes destroyed in recent days,
presumably by vandals who mistook his home for Singleton's.
   Singleton has been constant fodder on Tampa Bay area talk shows,
with listeners suggesting he be shipped far from Florida.
   In a full-page newspaper ad Thursday, Bradenton car dealer Tom
Stimus said Singleton was ``not fit to live among decent human
beings.'' He offered Singleton $5,000, a one-way ticket anywhere
and rent and utilities for six months at Singleton's new address.
   Stimus previously offered rewards for the assassination of
Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi and Iran's Ayatollah Khomeini.
   St. Petersburg radio station WQYK-FM matched Stimus' $5,000
offer after hundreds of people responding to an on-air poll said
they wanted Singleton to leave, according to spokeswoman Diana
Thomas.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0029 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0306EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r p PM-PoliticalBriefs     06-20 0514</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Political Briefs,490</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Poll Shows Dukakis 2-to-1 Over Bush in Iowa</HEAD>
<DATELINE>DES MOINES, Iowa (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Democrat Michael Dukakis holds a lead of
more than 2-to-1 over Republican George Bush among Iowans likely to
vote in the November presidential election, according to a new poll.
   The Massachusetts governor received support from 60 percent of
those surveyed compared to 28 percent for the vice president,
according to The Des Moines Register's Iowa Poll published Sunday.
   Another 11 percent said they are undecided and 1 percent said
they would support neither candidate.
   The poll was based on telephone responses from 670 randomly
selected Iowans who said they are likely to vote in November. The
survey, conducted June 7-14, had a margin of error of four
percentage points.
   Bush finished third behind Kansas Sen. Bob Dole and television
evangelist Pat Robertson in Iowa's early caucuses. Dukakis was
third behind Missouri Rep. Richard Gephardt and Illinois Sen. Paul
Simon.
</TEXT>
<HEAD>___</HEAD>
<HEAD>Quiet Talks Over Delegate Numbers in New Jersey</HEAD>
<DATELINE>TRENTON, N.J. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Backers of Jesse Jackson and Michael
Dukakis are negotiating over Jackson's claim that he should have
more than nine New Jersey delegates at the Democratic National
Convention in Atlanta next month.
   Jackson won nine of the 71 delegates up for grabs in the New
Jersey primary on June 7, but his backers say he deserved more
because he got 33 percent of the popular vote.
   State party officials said talks are going on over whether
Dukakis should relinquish some of his New Jersey delegates to
Jackson.
   Officials are hoping to resolve the issue before Tuesday night,
when 38 at-large and other delegates are to be chosen at the state
Democratic convention.
   ``It's the Dukakis campaign's goal to have a unified party
before Atlanta, at Atlanta, and after the convention,'' said Harold
Hodes, a New Jersey lobbyist and a leader in Dukakis' New Jersey
campaign.
   Hodes said the issue will be resolved before Tuesday night. He
said he has talked with Newark Mayor Sharpe James, who directed
state campaign, and will meet with him again.
</TEXT>
<HEAD>___</HEAD>
<HEAD>Kitty Dukakis Recovering Quickly From Surgery</HEAD>
<DATELINE>BROOKLINE, Mass. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Kitty Dukakis, who celebrates her 25th
wedding anniversary today with her husband, Democratic presidential
nominee-to-be Michael S. Dukakis, said she is fast recovering from
recent neck surgery.
   Mrs. Dukakis, 51, who underwent surgery at Massachusetts General
Hospital on June 3, said she is not taking any medication for pain.
   ``I have a little bit of hip pain, but nothing compared to what
I thought it would be like,'' said Mrs. Dukakis. ``And no
discomfort in my neck at all, except for having to wear the
collar.''
   Her operation was on two herniated spinal disks, which caused
numbness in her arms and legs.
   Mrs. Dukakis said she has recently taken walks around the
Brookline neighborhood where she lives.
   ``She's really on her way, (and is) physically and emotionally
in very good shape,'' said Sandy Bakalar, a close friend of Mrs.
Dukakis and the person who introduced her to the Massachusetts
governor. ``She can't wait to get to the (Democratic national)
convention.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0030 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0307EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a PM-SurferTribute     06-20 0258</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Surfer Tribute,0264</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Surfing Pioneer's Ashes Carried To Sea on Surfboard</HEAD>
<DATELINE>REDONDO BEACH, Calif. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The ashes of surfing pioneer Lewis
Earl ``Hoppy'' Swarts were carried to sea on a surfboard and
scattered in the Pacific Ocean after a service on the beach he
roamed for 50 years.
   About 15 surfers joined the crowd of 100 after dawn Sunday to
hear eulogies to Swarts, who died June 9 of a stroke while on his
way to a surfing contest in Northern California. He was 71.
   Among those remembering Swarts, the father of organized surfing
who developed the judging system used on the pro circuit, were
Surfer magazine publisher Steve Pezman, ex-surfing champion Donald
Takayama and lifelong friend Leroy Granis.
   Don Anderson, a pilot and longtime Swarts friend, dropped a
bouquet of flowers from an airplane during the service at water's
edge.
   After tributes to the accompaniment of Beach Boys music, Buz
Swarts carried his father's ashes on a surfboard with about 15
other surfers for scattering offshore. Takayama paddled out with a
wreath.
   ``There was hardly any surf all morning long and, just as they
started paddling out, three or four waves about 4-foot (high)
rolled in and some of the surfers rode them,'' said Granis. ``It
was beautiful.''
   Swarts, a 1930s surfing champ who was a familiar figure on
California beaches with his trademark straw hat and unbridled
enthusiasm for the sport, was described by Pezman as ``a primal
figure'' in the surfing community.
   Swarts started the United States Surfing Association in the
early 1960s.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0031 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0321EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a PM-KerouacMemorial Bjt   06-20 0547</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Kerouac Memorial, Bjt,0561</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Beat Author Kerouac Honored In Native City</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By BRIAN MURPHY</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>LOWELL, Mass. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   For nearly two decades the only memorial to
``beat generation'' author Jack Kerouac in his hometown was his
grave, where fans left offerings like a bottle of burgundy wine,
two cigarettes and a wilted rose.
   This week, the first official Kerouac memorial in Lowell will be
dedicated with a gathering of boyhood friends and writers like
Allen Ginsberg who, with Kerouac, expressed disillusionment with
mainstream America in the 1950s.
   ``Kerouac is to Lowell, as Thoreau is to Concord or Steinbeck is
to Salinas (Calif.),'' said Paul Marion, cultural affairs directors
for the Lowell Historic Preservation Commission, which coordinated
construction of the memorial. ``It will be a focal point for the
pilgrims.''
   In his early novels, Kerouac nostalgically portrayed this
northeastern Massachusetts city of mills and ethnic neighborhoods.
It became a brief sanctuary in his last years, when he was bloated
from booze and unable to write. He died in St. Petersburg, Fla., at
age 47 of a hemorrhage.
   The $100,000 memorial is an arrangement of 3-by-8-foot granite
panels bearing 15 passages from some of Kerouac's 20 books and
essays, including the so-called Lowell novels ``Doctor Sax,'' ``The
Town and the City'' and the classic ``On the Road.''
   Houston sculptor Ben Woitena said he arranged the panels in a
cross and circle pattern to represent the strong Roman Catholic
values of Kerouac's youth and his later exploration of Buddhism.
The polished reddish-brown stone reflects the red-brick mills and
canals that symbolized working-class Lowell to Kerouac.
   The site is less than a mile from the French-Canadian
neighborhood where Kerouac was raised and a block from The Sun
newspaper, which fired him after a brief stint as a young
sportswriter.
   Saturday's dedication will highlight a week of Kerouac-related
events, including poetry readings by Kerouac friends Ginsberg and
Lawrence Ferlinghetti.
   Two of Kerouac's three wives, Edith Parker Kerouac of Detroit
and Lowell-born Stella Sampas Kerouac, are expected to meet for the
first time since Kerouac's funeral. Kerouac's 36-year-old daughter,
Janet, also is to attend.
   The memorial's focus on literature, rather than Kerouac's
lifestyle, won over a contingent of residents who were opposed to a
large tribute to Kerouac, whom they saw as a symbol or decadence
and irreverence.
   ``It's good that they are finally remembering him for his
works,'' said the Rev. Armand Morrissette, who was Kerouac's
boyhood confidant and eulogized him at his funeral. ``He was a man
of great compassion and sincerity. He was much more than just a
drunk.''
   ``Kerouac saw all the world through Lowell. It was his reference
point for all the people and places he wrote about in his life,''
Ginsberg said in a telephone interview. ``To Jack, Lowell was a
sacred place. It's fitting that Lowell, in turn, makes Jack
sacred.''
   Kerouac, born Jean-Louis Lebris de Kerouac in 1922, spoke only
the French-Canadian ``patois'' until grade school.
   Although he often recalled his Lowell boyhood, Kerouac rarely
returned after leaving in 1939 for Columbia University in New York
City, where he was adopted into a circle of friends that included
Ginsberg and William Burroughs. He did, however, make his home in
Lowell for about a year during the mid-1960s before moving to
Florida.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0032 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0352EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u i PM-India-Sikhs     06-20 0584</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-India-Sikhs,0610</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Sikh Separtists' Bomb Attack On Market Kills Four, Injures 40</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By RAJU GOPALAKRISHNAN</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>NEW DELHI, India (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Suspected militant Sikh separatists
hurled a homemade grenade into a crowded vegetablkW|~@o morning,
killing four people and injuring about
40, police said.
   The attackers struck as about 2,000 shoppers and vendors were
gathered in the open-air market in the mixed Hindu and Sikh suburb
of Tilak Nagar. Pieces of flesh and blood-covered vegetables lay in
the mud left by overnight rains.
   It was the second day in a row that Sikh extremists had mounted
bombing attacks outside Punjab state, the main killing ground in
their 6-year-old guerrilla and terror war for a separate homeland.
   On Sunday, a bomb killed 15 people who were watching television
at a market in Kurukshetra in Haryana state, about 90 miles north
of New Delhi.
   Police said the bomb was planted by Sikh extremists and
apparently detonated by remote control. Afterward, police were
placed on alert in six states and New Delhi.
   Three of those killed in today's bombing of the Chowk Chandi
market were Hindu men. The identity of the fourth could not
immediately be determined.
   Assistant police commissioner Ajay Aggarwal quoted witnesses as
saying the grenade was thrown into the crowd from a cream-colored
van containing four Sikhs, who are recognizable by their
distinctive turbans and untrimmed beards.
   Shoppers panicked, fleeing through the mud and the blood.
   Aggarwal said there were no reports of religious tension in the
Hindu-Sikh neighborhood immediately after the attack. Sikh assaults
on Hindus in New Delhi and elsewhere in India sometimes trigger
violent backlashes.
   ``People are aggravated, but we are taking steps to control the
situation,'' Aggarwal said.
   He said police had banned the assembly of more than four people
in the neighborhood immediately after the attack.
   Tilak Nagar was predominantly Hindu until 1984, when Sikhs
started moving in after their homes were destroyed in anti-Sikh
riots touched off when Prime Minister Indira Gandhi was
assassinated by her Sikh bodyguards.
   Over the years, more Sikhs have arrived from Punjab, the
predominantly Sikh northern state where the militants have killed
at least 1,333 people so far this year. Although the militants
initially targeted Hindus, they have increasingly turned their guns
on fellow Sikhs they consider informers or too moderate.
   Sikh attacks outside Punjab state have claimed at least 46 lives
since the first of the year. Most of the victims died in bombings.
   About half those deaths occurred during or after the
government's siege last month of Sikh militants holed up in the
Golden Temple in the Punjab city of Amritsar. The siege ended after
more than 40 Sikhs were killed and hundreds of others surrendered.
   The Golden Temple, Sikhism's holiest shrine, had contained
headquarters and arms caches of several Sikh separatist groups.
   Although the government succeeded in clearing the temple of
armed militants, the siege prompted fears the radicals would
escalate attacks outside Punjab, where killings continued.
   Sikh gunmen killed five people there in four attacks Sunday
night, according to the United News of India and Press Trust of
India. UNI also said security forces shot to death a Sikh extremist.
   Although Sikhs are a majority in Punjab, they form just 2
percent of India's predominantly Hindu 800 million people. Their
agitation for greater autonomy in Punjab began in 1982 and grew
into demands by several militant groups for an independent nation.
   The Sikh faith was founded about 500 years ago as an alternative
to Hinduism and Islam.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0033 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0409EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u i PM-Dollar-Gold     06-20 0030</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Dollar-Gold,0030</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Gold Up</HEAD>
<DATELINE>LONDON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Gold opened in London Monday morning at a bid
price of $454.20 a troy ounce, up from Friday's late bid of $450.00.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0034 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0428EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u i PM-Japan-Markets 1stLd-Writethru a0492 06-20 0200</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Japan-Markets, 1st Ld-Writethru, a0492,0203</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Shares Dip, Dollar Up</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: CORRECTS style of time element thruout</NOTE>
<DATELINE>TOKYO (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Share prices on the Tokyo Stock Exchange fell for
the first time in six days today, while the dollar closed slightly
higher against the Japanese yen.
   The Nikkei Stock Average of 225 selected issues, the market's
main index, dipped 203.43 points, or 0.71 percent, from Friday's
close to finish the day's session at 28,139.03.
   The Nikkei index closed at 28,342.46 on Friday, the fifth
consecutive day it posted record highs. Trading was sluggish today
with 1.2 billion shares changing hands, compared with 1.7 billion
Friday.
   An official of Nomura Securities Co., who spoke on condition of
anonymity, said investors were restrained because there were no
fresh incentives following active trading last week.
   He said some investors wanted to monitor the development of the
Toronto summit of seven industrialized nations because a new world
monetary policy might be discussed.
   In the Tokyo foreign exchange market, the dollar closed at
126.09 yen, up 0.36 yen from Friday's close. The dollar opened at
125.84 yen and ranged between 125.82 yen and 126.14 yen.
   Volume totaled $4.1 billion, compared with nearly $5 billion
Friday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0035 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0505EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i PM-DukeofWindsor     06-20 0475</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Duke of Windsor,0485</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Duke's Letters Show Bitterness Toward Royal Family</HEAD>
<DATELINE>LONDON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The royal family's unfriendliness to the Duke and
Duchess of Windsor after he abdicated the throne left the Duke
deeply embittered long after their scandalous marriage, a series of
letters published today show.
   Calling his family a ``smug, stinking lot,'' the Duke lauded his
decision to leave court life in one of the letters published by the
Daily Mail newspaper as an excerpt from an upcoming book.
   ``Let us enjoy our lovely, full life together far removed from
the boredom, the restrictions and the intrigues of the royal family
and the court,'' the Duke wrote to his wife while in London for the
funeral of his mother Queen Mary in 1953.
   ``What a smug, stinking lot my relations are and you've never
seen such a seedy worn out bunch of old hags most of them have
become,'' wrote the Duke, who was the uncrowned Edward VIII for 11
months before abdicating.
   His mother was as ``hard as nails,'' he wrote another time.
   The Duke and the Duchess used a series of codenames to refer to
their relatives in the letters, such as ``Cookie'' for the Duke's
sister-in-law Elizabeth, now the Queen Mother, and Shirley Temple,
Junior for now Queen Elizabeth II.
   According to the Daily Mail, the letters were given by the Duke
and Duchess to their lawyers with the aim of eventual publication.
   The newspaper published excerpts from 16 letters by the couple,
mostly to each other, as the first in a series of installments from
a book called ``The Secret File of the Duke of Windsor'' edited by
Michael Bloch, to be published in July. It did not say how many
installments would appear.
   The Duke, who abdicated in 1936 because he couldn't marry the
American Wallis Simpson, who had been twice divorced, wrote one
series of letters to the Duchess during a trip to London for the
funeral of his younger brother, King George VI, in February 1952.
   At the time, he was informed that the 10,000-pound annual
pension granted by his brother would be halted, the newspaper
reported.
   It said this violated the original agreement between the
brothers that as long as the Duke gave up everything he had
inherited he could have a lifelong pension.
   Later, when the Duke made indirect inquiries about allowing the
Duchess to attend the coronation of his brother's daughter, Queen
Elizabeth II, the royal's private secretary said that that was
impossible because it would add a ``discordant note'' to the
celebrations, the report said.
   Earlier, the Duke had written to his brother asking for the
family to meet his wife. ``If only we could be invited just once
for tea,'' he wrote.
   The Duke died in 1972 at age 77 and the Duchess in 1986 at the
age of 89.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0036 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0527EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a PM-RampMurders     06-20 0638</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Ramp Murders,0661</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Fear, Anger Grip City After Killings Of Women In Parking Ramps</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: `Deane' cq in 20th graf.</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By JEFF BAENEN</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>MINNEAPOLIS (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The daytime murders of two women in parking
ramps and a series of other attacks have brought fear and anger to
this city, which prides itself on its small-town values and low
crime rate.
   ``We're being infected by America's values,'' Police Chief Tony
Bouza said.
   In response, many women are enrolling in self-defense classes,
businesses are beefing up security and sales of Mace and whistles
have been brisk.
   ``We talk about our quality of life. We say we're above this,
these things don't happen (here). They happen in Chicago or L.A. or
New York,'' said City Councilwoman Barbara Carlson. ``And all of
sudden murders like this occur and you realize they can happen.
They are happening. What do we do?''
   Carrie Coonrod, a 19-year-old student on her way to a job
interview, was stabbed to death May 27 in a downtown parking
garage. A suspect, who was released from a Nebraska prison in March
after serving time for a sex offense, was arrested three hours
later.
   Sixteen days later, Mary Catherine Foley, 34, a manager at
Honeywell Inc., was strangled in the company's parking ramp. No
arrests have been made.
   Other events have heightened the tension:
   _A 44-year-old drifter, Billy Glaze, was indicted Tuesday on
first-degree murder charges in the 1986-1987 deaths and sexual
mutilation of three women.
   _On June 3, a man assaulted a 26-year-old woman in an isolated
part of the skyway pedestrian system linking downtown businesses.
The man fled after the woman screamed, alerting passers-by.
   _An attorney was abducted from her downtown office the evening
of May 22 and repeatedly raped in a 13-hour ordeal. A building
security guard has been charged in the assault.
   Gov. Rudy Perpich has scheduled a meeting Wednesday with
representatives of Twin Cities businesses and government to
determine what help the state can give.
   In the last couple of weeks, 48 self-defense workshops have been
scheduled and more are pending, said Lucy Gerold, director of
community crime prevention for the city. Normally, about 12
workshops are provided a year.
   ``I think it's fear,'' Ms. Gerold explained.
   Some businesses are buying employees Mace or providing escorts
to cars.
   The law firm of Robins, Zelle, Larson and Kaplan bought about
200 aerosol cans of Mace for employees, said managing partner Tom
Kayser. Within 1{ hours, the cans were gone, Kayser said.
   Abbott Northwestern Hospital bought about 4,500 ``shriek
alarms,'' pressurized canisters that emit a piercing whistle, for
employees, said spokeswoman Megan O'Hara. A radio station announced
plans to give away 5,000 police whistles.
   A store that sells Mace, a chemical irritant used to disable an
attacker, had sold out its supply and was awaiting a new shipment.
   ``We have orders for over 1,000 in the last two days and
normally we would sell a gross (144),'' said Deane Rusinko, a
salesman at Uniforms Unlimited.
   ``The last few days the majority of our time has been spent
answering the phone and filling orders. I've never seen anything
like it, ever,'' Rusinko said.
   In this city of 360,000 people, there have been 27 killings this
year, compared with 23 at the same time in 1987 when there were a
record 48 slayings for the year, Deputy Police Chief Bob Lutz said.
   Chief Bouza called the parking ramp killings ``isolated,
aberrational acts,'' and said reports of other violent crimes
actually declined this year.
   Susan Hanstead, who works at a downtown law firm, said she feels
Minneapolis is safer than her hometown of Chicago.
   ``Notwithstanding what just happened, I feel OK here,'' said Ms.
Hanstead, whose law firm ordered Mace and organized a self-defense
class. ``I think I'm more angry than I am afraid right now.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0037 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0527EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a PM-SwedishWedding     06-20 0562</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Swedish Wedding,0580</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Couple Wins Elaborate Wedding After 12-Year Transcontinental
Courtship</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By KARREN MILLS</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>BLOOMINGTON, Minn. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The wait has ended for Lena Sofia
Bergstrand and Frank Young, who met nearly a dozen years ago in
Sweden and carried on a transatlantic courtship before a fairy-tale
wedding won through patience.
   Forty fiddlers, the 80-voice Orphei Drangar men's chorus and
musicians from the Gothenburg Symphony _ all from Sweden _ helped
create the elaborate traditional Swedish wedding Sunday.
   Bergstrand and Young said goodbye almost 12 years ago when he
returned to the United States after a nine-month courtship during
his exchange student days in Sweden. Both thought then their
romance was over.
   But they couldn't forget each other. They exchanged hundreds of
telephone calls and letters between Albany, N.Y., and Johanneshov,
Sweden, and got together about twice each year.
   So when the minister read from the Bible that ``Love is patient,
love is kind,'' the passage had special meaning for the 27-year-old
bride, an insurance company secretary in Sweden, and 28-year-old
groom, a commercial pilot.
   The ceremony, part of the 10-day ``Midsummer, a Minnesota
Festival of Music'' at Highland Lake Park Reserve, was ``the kind
of wedding celebration little girls dream about _ filled with
dancers, sweet music, pageantry, flowers and poetry,'' said Jan
Strand, co-director of New Sweden Minnesota, part of the yearlong
national celebration commemorating the 350th anniversary of Swedish
immigration to the United States.
   Celebration organizers chose Young and Bergstrand as winners of
the wedding from among hundreds of applicants in the international
competition, Strand said.
   ``Their story of young love kept alive across a dozen years and
thousands of miles is a truly classic story of romance and
commitment,'' Strand said.
   The wedding festivities began with a procession led by
standard-bearers carrying four U.S. and four Swedish flags.
Horse-drawn Swedish hay wagons, colorful ethnic dancers, strolling
musicians and folk fiddlers followed, and a carriage drawn by white
horses held the bride and groom, who wore traditional Swedish
wedding attire.
   After the procession, a 1,500-pound, 60-foot Swedish Maypole
topped with a rooster and the blue-and-yellow Swedish flag was
raised by hand by about 24 men using crossed wood beams.
   Then came the ceremony, attended by about 2,000 people of
Scandinavian descent and other onlookers who covered the hillside
overlooking the stage.
   Organizers, who had invited the public and expected a crowd of
10,000, said the 98-degree heat kept many away. Nonetheless, some
came in party dresses and Swedish folk costumes.
   The groom and his two attendants wore moosehide knicker-type
britches with wool socks, wool vests and heavy wool-lined jackets _
and must have sweltered.
   Bergstrand's wedding dress, and those of her two attendants,
were made from fabric, materials and patterns sent from Leksand,
Sweden, according to the folk-costume tradition of that area.
   The wedding dress had a red silk brocade bodice, white linen
damask scarf and blouse and black wool skirt, topped by a blue wool
apron with a special glazed finish.
   ``We're very happy that we're finally going to be together,''
Bergstrand told a news conference before the wedding. ``It's like a
dream come true.''
   Following a honeymoon in Denmark, Sweden and Norway, the couple
will make their home in Albany.
   Strand said the cost of the wedding was unknown because several
corporate sponsors helped pay expenses and most of the labor was
volunteered.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0038 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0537EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i PM-Obit-Waha     06-20 0290</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Obit-Waha,0301</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Former AP Vienna Bureau Chief Dies In Car Crash</HEAD>
<DATELINE>VIENNA, Austria (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Eric Waha, an Associated Press newsman
for 31 years and former Vienna chief of bureau for the news agency,
has died in a single-vehicle car crash. He was 63.
   A police report said Waha was alone in his car Sunday when it
went off a country highway about 12 miles from Vienna and smashed
into a tree.
   Waha, a native of Vienna, joined the AP in 1953 and became
Vienna bureau chief in 1965. He left Vienna in 1979 to become a
representative of AP Dow Jones in Hong Kong.
   He later returned to Europe where he served as AP correspondent
in East Berlin for 2{ years before his retirement in 1984.
   In 1956, he was among the Western correspondents covering the
Hungarian uprising and was arrested. He was released several days
later and expelled from Hungary.
   Waha also covered the 1968 Soviet-led invasion of
Czechoslovakia, directing coverage both in Vienna and in the
Czechoslovak capital of Prague.
   He organized coverage of the 1964 winter Olympics in Innsbruck,
Austria, and again played a key role in the AP report on the 1976
Olympics there.
   Among other major sport events he covered was the 1972 winter
Olympics in Sapporo, Japan. His last assignmant was the 1984 Winter
Olympics in Sarajevo, Yugoslavia.
   Waha's favorite sport was soccer. He was an amateur soccer
player and covered international matches in Austria and Eastern
Europe.
   As a bureau chief, he managed the AP's business and
administrative affairs in Austria, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia,
Hungary, Romania and Yugoslavia.
   He also served for many years as secretary of the Austrian
foreign press club.
   Waha, who was unmarried, is survived by a brother, Norbert.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0039 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0551EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a PM-CaveDive     06-20 0497</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Cave Dive,0510</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Expedition Maps 40 Million-Year-Old Cave System</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By ED BIRK</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>TALLAHASSEE, Fla. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A four-man diving team swam through an
8,440-foot underwater cave system, setting records and mapping 40
million-year-old tunnels in an effort that claimed a companion's
life last month.
   ``Here's to ... Bill McFaden, who I'm sure would love to be here
today,'' diver Parker Turner, 36, of Destin said after he and the
others emerged Sunday afternoon from their journey. McFaden, 32,
ran out of air and drowned in a nearby cave May 15, as his
companions tried to pull him to safety.
   The divers swam through 1.6 miles of craggy limestone caverns
from Sullivan Sink about 12 miles south of Tallahasee to Cheryl
Sink.
   They spent just over an hour breathing specially blended gases
to decompress from the dive at depths up to 240 feet.
   ``My lungs are a little scratchy from breathing all that
(oxygen). Other than that, I'm fine,'' said Turner, director of
safety for the Gainesville-based National Association for Cave
Diving. ``It went real smooth. But boy, if you had a problem, it
would have been distressing.''
   The previous record for the longest cave traverse was set in a
6,400-foot dive in Keld's Head, England, and the deepest cave
traverse was set during a 230-foot dive in the Sullivan system,
said Turner.
   The team measured the Sullivan tunnel system in January in
separate dives by stringing lines from each end, setting a record
for connecting the longest underwater cave, but had not traversed
the entire system in one dive until Sunday.
   The group got a late start because Bill Main, 36, of Alachua
needed time to cool down from an apparent case of heat stroke as he
prepared for the dive while wearing his insulating wetsuit in the
90-plus-degree heat.
   Aimed primarily at mapping the tunnels, collecting rock samples
and studying geologic structures, the expedition could produce
evidence linking the caves to underwater rivers flowing into the
Gulf of Mexico some 20 miles south.
   Geologists are more certain they will learn about water flow in
the Floridan Aquifer, which provides drinking water to wells in
much of Florida, said Frank Rupert of the Florida Geological
Survey, who attended the dive.
   The caves were formed about the time a shallow inland sea
covered Florida and part of Georgia, Rupert said.
   They are part of what is believed to be a 40,000-foot system,
which would make it the longest documented underwater limestone
cave system. The second-longest is the 36,000-foot Lucayan tunnel
beneath Grand Bahama Island, said team publicist Lisa Burkett.
   The exploration had been postponed since February because heavy
rains last winter washed silt into the caves and cut visibility.
But recent weeks of drought allowed the debris to settle.
   ``What a wild ride,'' Turner said Sunday, noting an underground
current of at least 1 knot carried the team through in about 55
minutes. ``I'm really glad we waited because the flow was real
strong.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0040 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0601EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u i PM-Thatcher'sStature 1stLd-Writethru a0412 06-20 0977</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Thatcher's Stature, 1st Ld-Writethru, a0412,1001</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Thatcher Revolution Hits Raw Nerve</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: SUBS graf 7 to ADD that Thatcher is longest serving prime
minister this century, picks up graf 8 `Her program...'</NOTE>
<HEAD>An AP Extra</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By MAUREEN JOHNSON</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>LONDON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, always more
respected by Britons than liked, is antagonizing both her
traditional critics and supporers as her right-wing revolution
confronts the cherished welfare state.
   But despite parliamentary rebellions, public weariness with her
combative style and polls showing widespread dislike of key aspects
of her policies, her dominance of her Conservative Party and the
country appears unchallenged.
   The polls show why: Most Britons feel they are better off, and
most believe that _ like it or not _ Mrs. Thatcher's recipe for a
free-enterprise society and ending the ``dependency culture'' will
improve the economy in the long term.
   However, there are signs of unease within the Conservative party
about both the Thatcher style and the radical program she is
pursuing in the third five-year term she won last year.
   ``They're going too fast, they're too strident in their tone,
Mrs. Thatcher's personal profile is too high,'' Sir John Nott, who
was Mrs. Thatcher's defense secretary from 1979 to 1983, said in a
recent television interview.
   ``You cannot conduct politics over a continued period and reform
the country if everything is seen as the policies, or not the
policies, of a single individual,'' he said.
   After two terms of assaulting inflation, powerful labor unions
and inefficient state-owned industries, Mrs. Thatcher, the longest
serving prime minister this century, is treading into more
sensitive territory.
   Her program now affects millions of Britons personally, through
an overhaul of education, a revision of welfare benefits, a new
property tax and tight funding of the state-run National Health
Service.
   ``Only now have the philosophical aspirations of Thatcherism
taken concrete form,'' The Economist weekly commented.
``Thatcherism is now on trial.''
   What worries some Tories is that the Thatcher forcefulness that
tamed the unions looks less admirable when used to push through
measures directly touching people's lives and pocketbooks.
   Conservatives to the left of Mrs. Thatcher winced, for example,
at slashing the top income tax rate this year by one-third to 40
percent while removing state housing subsidies from several million
families as part of the changes in welfare benefits.
   Mrs. Thatcher shows no such unease, fueling charges she is
becoming more abrasive and dogmatic and has reduced Parliament _
where she has had big majorities since winning power in 1979 _ to a
rubber stamp.
   Increasingly, she rolls out the big guns to get her way. In
January, she ordered a three-line whip, the toughest voting
stricture parliamentary managers can impose, to defeat a bill
introduced by a rank-and-file Tory lawmaker who sought to
liberalize Britain's strict official secrecy laws.
   The bill was lost, but the normal Tory majority of 101 in the
650-member Commons slumped to 37. Rebel legislator Sir Ian Gilmour
described the Thatcher order as ``wholly misconceived,
authoritarian and a sorry display of executive arrogance.''
   In April, the property tax bill, which replaces the single house
tax with a flat-rate levy on every adult living under the same
roof, provoked the biggest revolt yet. An attempt by a
rank-and-file Tory member of Parliament to relate the tax to income
was lost by only 25 votes.
   When the tax measure risked defeat in the unelected House of
Lords, Conservative parliamentary managers drafted in an array of
land-owning aristrocrats to vote for the government. They included
peers who almost never attend sessions of the largely hereditary
chamber.
   Mrs. Thatcher maintains that making everyone pay the tax will
bring home the cost of electing the higher-spending Labor Party to
local councils, which impose property taxes.
   The Thatcher bossiness, the fabled furies, have become part of
the national folklore _ a sort of joke in which she herself
occasionally joins.
   A fellow Cabinet minister quipped that at a recent Cabinet
committee meeting which had to be cut short she quipped: ``There is
only time for me to lose my temper and get my own way.''
   What Mrs. Thatcher, a smalltown grocer's daughter who has taken
over the most traditionally male-dominated party in Britain, does
not find amusing are the continuing charges she lacks compassion.
   Recently she has taken to quoting the Bible and religious
thinkers in support of her free-enterprise, wealth-creating
philosophy.
   Political insiders say she both resents and is surprised by her
personal unpopularity _ at Gallup's last sounding, 45 percent of
respondents rated her likeable, compared with 60 percent for
opposition leader Neil Kinnock.
   ``They do not like my success,'' Mrs. Thatcher told The Sunday
Times of London. ``And of course some of them are snobs. They can
never forgive me for coming from a very ordinary background.''
   Her remark touched on continuing tension in the Tory Party
between the go-getter Thatcherites with blue-collar and
middle-class backgrounds and the landed gentry who used to be in
charge.
   Britons generally see Thatcher's Britain as more materialistic
and divided.
   The yuppie in the City of London financial district is a stock
figure of satire. Television's most instantly successful new
comedian, Harry Enfield, portrays a brash Cockney whose hallmark
phrase is, ``I've got loadsamoney.''
   Nott, the former defense secretary, interpreted the conflicting
national attitudes _ voting for Thatcher policies while professing
to dislike many of them _ as evidence that old attitudes ingrained
by four decades of post-war welfarism endure amid the new
prosperity.
   Forty-nine percent of people questioned in a Market and Opinion
Research International survey in June told pollsters they favor a
``mainly socialist'' society, as opposed to 43 percent who opted
for ``mainly capitalist.''
   But a two-thirds majority said that Thatcher policies were right
for long-term economic prosperity and 74 percent of the 1,030
voters surveyed said they were satisfied with their standard of
living.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0041 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0603EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i PM-Haiti-Glance     06-20 0496</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Haiti-Glance,0503</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>With PM-Haiti, Bjt</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By The Associated Press</BYLINE>
<TEXT>
   Here is a brief look at Haiti, where a military coup late Sunday
ousted the first country's first civilian-elected president in 30
years.
</TEXT>
<HEAD>THE LAND:</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   Haiti covers 10,700 square miles, slightly larger than Maryland.
Most of the land is arid and mountainous, deeply eroded and
treeless, an infertile environment that allows little more than
subsistence farming. On the west, Haiti faces Cuba and the
Caribbean Sea. To the east is the Spanish-speaking Dominican
Republic, which covers the eastern, more fertile, two-thirds of the
island of Hispaniola.
</TEXT>
<HEAD>THE PEOPLE:</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   Ninety-five percent of Haitians are descendants of African
slaves brought to the New World to cut sugar cane. A great slave
revolt led by former slave Toussaint L'Ouverture eventually led to
victory over Napoleon's troops and independence from France on Jan.
1, 1804. Haiti was the first black republic in history. Today, it
is the Western Hemisphere's poorest country. Life expectancy is 54
years, per capita income $379 a year, and 85 of every 100 Haitians
live in absolute poverty. Only 13 of 100 Haitians have access to
potable water. Thousands, including about 15,000 abandoned or
orphaned children, live and sleep in the streets of the capital,
Port-au-Prince, without shelter, sanitary facilities or other
necessities. Only about 60,000 of the country's 6 million people
live what would be considered in the United States a middle class
lifestyle. These priviledged few, mostly light-skinned mulattos,
own about 46 percent of the national wealth.
</TEXT>
<HEAD>HISTORY:</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   Following independence, Haiti ruled the entire island of
Hispaniola from 1818 to 1839. U.S. troops occupied Haiti from 1915
to 1934 following a long period of instability. After World War II,
a 10-year boom brought foreign investment, tourism and public works
on a grand scale, although little was done to increase public
services for the poor. Another period of turmoil culminated in 1957
with the election of Francois Duvalier, a doctor who declared
himself president for life in 1964. ``Papa Doc,'' as he was called,
died in 1971 and was succeeded by his 19-year-old son, Jean-Claude.
The Duvalier family amassed an immense fortune and created the
notorious Tonton Macoutes, a vicious private militia that throttled
political opposition by arresting, torturing and killing at will.
Jean-Claude ``Baby Doc'' Duvalier fled to exile in France in
February 1986 after food riots grew into nationwide anti-government
demonstrations. A military-civilian junta led by Lt. Gen. Henri
Namphy took power and agreed to hold elections. An independently
run election Nov. 29 was suspended because of widespread violence
that the army made no effort to stop. On Jan. 24, Leslie F.
Manigat, a 57-year-old former political science professor, was
declared the winner in the election that critics claim was
fraudulent. His government was installed in February. Manigat
retired Namphy as commander in chief of Haiti's 7,000-man army on
Friday, charging him with insubordination in ordering the transfer
of lower-ranking officers three days earlier. Late Sunday, Namphy
led a coup that ousted Namphy.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0042 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0615EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i PM-Vietnam-Corruption     06-20 0413</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Vietnam-Corruption,0425</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Hundreds Expelled From Party In Strategic Province</HEAD>
<DATELINE>BANGKOK, Thailand (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Vietnam's ruling Communist Party, in
one of its biggest reported purges in 1{ years of reform, has
expelled more than 500 members in one province alone for
embezzlement and other violations.
   The official party newspaper Nhan Dan, or The People, said they
were purged in Cao Bang, a strategic northern province on the tense
border with Vietnam's arch-enemy, China.
   Action was taken after people wrote letters complaining that the
officials had violated party discipline and state law, the paper
said in a June 9 article, a text of which was obtained today from a
Western embassy in Bangkok.
   The paper said that as of late May, 506 party members were
expelled in Cao Bang and disciplinary action was taken against 391
others. It didn't say when the purges began.
   The party has mounted a ``purification'' campaign since a
pragmatic leadership was chosen in December 1986.
   The report said some of those expelled were directors or members
of district standing committees and party committees who stole
large amounts of state property.
   One of those named was senior Capt. Tran Duc Tuy, deputy head of
the Cao Bang City public security post, who ``provided hideouts for
criminals and illegally arrested people.''
   Some diplomats say the party will chose Do Muoi, 71, as the
country's new prime minister because he is known as a party
disciplinarian who can halt the slide in morale and organization.
   Do Muoi is the third-ranking member of the Politburo, the
party's main policy-making body.
   His apparent rise as the leading candidate has surprised foreign
analysts who said the party favored Vo Van Kiet, 66, because of his
reputation as a leading advocate of economic reform. Kiet, the
fourth-ranking Politburo member, has been acting premier since Pham
Hung died in March.
   A new premier is to be named during a regular National Assembly
session that opens Wednesday in Hanoi.
   The party chief, pragmatist Nguyen Van Linh, said in a tour of
the provinces earlier this month that Vietnam's economy has
``collapsed'' because of irrational accounting methods by
enterprises. His remarks were carried by the domestic Radio Hanoi
on June 14.
   ``We have been too long calculating too low prices of equipment
and materials and insufficient input, compelling the state to make
up for too big losses,'' he said. ``The situation of fake profits
and true losses has prevailed. The national economy has collapsed
largely because of this situation.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0043 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0640EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a PM-Scout-Drowning     06-20 0338</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Scout-Drowning,0349</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Two Cub Scouts Die After Accident In Lake</HEAD>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A 9-year-old Cub Scout who drowned in a Scout
camp lake had been upset by the sight of a friend's unconscious
body being pulled from the water, another camper said. The friend
later died.
   ``He was saying `I was supposed to go down to the bottom with
him,''' Boy Scout Raymond Goffin said of Joel Nieves. ``He was
hyperventilating. He was really nervous.''
   Police could not say how Joel ended up in the water. He had been
reported missing after friend Luis Ruiz' accident Saturday in the
borough of Staten Island and was the subject of a search by more
than 100 police officers and 50 volunteers.
   Police divers recovered Joel's body from Ohrbach Lake on Sunday
morning, said police Sgt. Diane Kubler.
   Luis died Sunday night in the pediatric intensive care unit of
Staten Island Hospital, said Allan Weidenbaum, assistant director
of nursing.
   Both boys lived in the borough of Brooklny, where they belonged
to Cub Scout Pack 74.
   A scout leader said he had forbidden the 18 Scouts on the outing
from swimming or fishing in the lake at Camp Pouch.
   ``It was their first trip, so I didn't know who swims and who
can't,'' said Assistant Scoutmaster Felix Gomez.
   Gomez said another assistant scoutmaster allowed Luis and at
least one other boy to go into the water while some of the other
boys were hiking.
   He said that after Luis went underwater, six other Scouts formed
a human chain and rescued him after he had been submerged for 10 to
15 minutes.
   Joel was seen on shore after the rescue, but Scout leaders
realized he was missing three hours later. Police speculated at the
time that the boy may have been frightened by Luis's accident, and
that he ran off. He was not found in an initial search of the lake.
   Joel's father, Saul Nieves, said his son, a fourth-grade
student, had been scheduled to receive a school trophy today.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0044 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0641EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a BC-Quotes     06-20 0134</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-Quotes,0139</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Current Quotations</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By The Associated Press</BYLINE>
<TEXT>
   ``The army will lead the country this way.'' _ Haiti's military
leader Lt. Gen. Henri Namphy, waving a submachine gun after
capturing the national palace in a gun and grenade battle and
seizing civilian President Leslie Manigat.
</TEXT>
<TEXT>
   ``A lot of people around here are angry, hostile and afraid. We
want to avoid vigilante behavior and mistakes.'' _ Art Lawrence, a
parole officer and father of two teen-agers in the Forest Hills
neighborhood in Tampa, Fla., where rapist-mutilator Lawrence
Singleton reportedly has moved.
</TEXT>
<TEXT>
   ``All I can think about when I close my eyes is my bed sitting
at home waiting for me.'' _ Priscilla Rodriguez, a Springfield,
Mass., resident forced from her home near a chlorine plant fire
that has been emitting deadly fumes.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0045 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0646EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a PM-Lites     06-20 0442</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Lites,0464</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>On The Light Side</HEAD>
<DATELINE>HARDIN, Mont. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The Bighorn County Sheriff's Department
invented a new sport out of necessity: bear roping.
   Sheriff Ed Whaley said his office received a report Sunday
afternoon that a young bear was prowling in some sugar beet fields
about three miles north of Hardin.
   When Whaley and deputies arrived, the bear was about 25 feet up
in a cottonwood tree beside State Highway 47, drawing a crowd of
onlookers who stopped traffic.
   Authorities estimated the male bear was 1{ years old and weighed
less than 100 pounds.
   ``I think people were bothering the bear more than the bear was
bothering people,'' Whaley said.
   He said he thought the bear would go away if the people left,
but they kept coming.
   Whaley said he decided something had to be done.
   Deputy George Roger shot the bear with a tranquilizer gun, but
the muscle relaxant wore off in five to 10 minutes, and the bear
stayed in the tree, Whaley said.
   After four doses of the tranquilizer, the bear finally crawled
out of the tree and took off running toward a nearby wrecking yard.
   Whaley said Deputy John Shaw then used some cowboy skills,
roping the bear ``just like a cow.''
   ``We caught him on the first throw,'' Whaley said.
   A deputy administered a sedative that put the bear to sleep.
Officers loaded the animal into a horse trailer and drove into the
Pryor Mountains with a state game warden. When the warden let the
bruin go, the animal jumped out of the trailer.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>HUNTINGTON BEACH, Calif. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Page Penk is charging $2 a
person for people to get lost.
   He wants them to go around the bend _ and around, and around and
around.
   Penk, 24, built a 200-foot-square maze of 6-foot-high cedar
planks on the campus of Golden West College.
   It takes 20 to 25 minutes for most customers to thread their way
through the dead-end channels. They must reach and return from four
checkpoints, marked with red flags and the letters ``M,'' ``A,''
``Z'' and ``E.''
   A clock at the entrance can be used to time trips.
   At least 400 people have wandered through the maze since it
opened June 11, Penk said.
   The entrepreneur said he got the idea from an article about
Japanese mazes, which can contain 2,000 yards of pathways and lure
thousands of customers.
   On a recent day, 16-year-old Casey Rimer completed the maze in
just 13 minutes and 39 seconds, but he had to run to do it.
   ``That was cool,'' a panting Rimer said. ``It's more confusing
than you think it is. It's psycho.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0046 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0647EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a PM-WeatherpageWeather     06-20 0524</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Weatherpage Weather,0538</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Lingering Clouds, Showers And Thunderstorms Over Much Of Nation</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By The Associated Press</BYLINE>
<TEXT>
   Cloudy skies, isolated showers and thunderstorms lingered over
much of the nation today after wracking parts of the central and
southeastern United States with fierce winds and hail the size of
softballs.
   The storm systems produced severe weather Sunday afternoon and
early evening but then dissipated.
   In Georgia, strong thunderstorm winds blew trees onto power
lines at Moran and downed several trees at Bolingbroke. The high
winds also blew over a tin shed near Holly Ridge, La. In Minnesota,
strong gusts brought down trees, a small garage and a barn.
   Large hail hammered parts of Wisconsin. Martel reported hail the
size of ping pong balls, Baldwin had golf ball-sized hail, and an
area north of River Falls was blasted by hail as big as softballs.
   Record highs were recorded Sunday in the Midwest and Plains,
including 104 degrees at Lincoln, Neb., breaking a record of 103
for the date set in 1974; 95 degrees in Alpena, Mich., topping the
92-degree mark of 1964; and 103 in Sioux City, Iowa, beating the
99-degree record set in 1933 and 1953.
   A tornado touched down briefly Sunday at McCook, Neb., but no
damage or injuries were reported.
   Skies were clear over Minnesota, much of Wisconsin and the
central Plains early today; a few showers and thunderstorms
persisted over northeastern Colorado and northwest Kansas. Isolated
showers and thunderstorms lingered in the Southeast.
   Today's forecast called for thunderstorms scattered from Maine
across Vermont to New York; and showers and thunderstorms from
Florida and Alabama into southeastern Texas, as well as from
southern Idaho to northern Arizona and Southern California.
   High temperatures were forecast for the upper 60s and the 70s
along the California coast; in the 70s and 80s in northern Oregon
and Washington; in the 80s over the Great Lakes and northern Maine;
near 90 from the Carolinas across Georgia and Alabama, as well as
in the Rockies; in the upper 90s to 100 and hotter in the central
Plains and the Missouri Valley, and from the valleys of central
California through the desert Southwest; and in the 90s in the rest
of the nation.
   Temperatures around the nation at 3 a.m. EDT ranged from 51
degrees at North Bend, Ore., to 94 degrees at Phoenix, Ariz.
   Other reports:
   _East: Atlanta 71 fair; Boston 68 fair; Buffalo 71 partly
cloudy; Charleston, S.C. 71 fair; Cincinnati 67 fair; Cleveland 70
fair; Detroit 68 fair; Miami 76 cloudy; New York 64 fair;
Philadelphia 68 foggy; Pittsburgh 63 partly cloudy; Portland, Maine
62 foggy; Washington 72 hazy.
   _Central: Bismarck 61 fair; Chicago 77 partly cloudy;
Dallas-Fort Worth 75 fair; Denver 71 fair; Des Moines 76 fair;
Indianapolis 72 fair; Kansas City 83 fair; Minneapolis-St. Paul 72
fair; Nashville 75 fair; New Orleans 70 fair; St. Louis 82 cloudy.
   _West: Albuquerque 79 fair; Anchorage 51 rain; Las Vegas 85
fair; Los Angeles 62 cloudy; Phoenix 94 fair; Salt Lake City 79
partly cloudy; San Diego 63 cloudy; San Francisco 58 partly cloudy;
Seattle 57 partly cloudy.
   _Canada: Montreal 77 partly cloudy; Toronto 73 partly cloudy.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0047 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0703EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u i PM-Dollar-Gold     06-20 0317</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Dollar-Gold,0333</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Dollar Stable as Market Waits for Summit News</HEAD>
<DATELINE>LONDON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The dollar turned in mixed results today in calm
early European trading as the market waited for news from an
economic summit meeting in Toronto. Gold prices were higher also in
slack trading.
   Foreign exchange dealers said the dollar rose in East Asia as
dealers anticipated positive comments on the currency by leaders of
the seven major industrialized nations attending the summit, which
began on Sunday.
   ``They will probably make some remarks on the foreign exchange
market, and everything that has been said in recent weeks has been
positive,'' a senior dealer at a U.S. bank in Frankfurt said.
   But dealers said many market participants were waiting for an
official statement, leaving the dollar little changed in a narrow
trading range.
   In Tokyo, where the business day ends as Europe's begins, the
dollar rose 0.36 yen to a closing 126.09 yen. Later, in London, it
was quoted fractionally higher at 126.15 yen.
   Other dollar rates at mid-morning, compared with late Friday's
rates:
   _1.7537 West German marks, up from 1.7530
   _1.4565 Swiss francs, down from 1.4575
   _5.9135 French francs, up from 5.9120
   _1.9706 Dutch guilders, up from 1.9695
   _1,301.10 Italian lire, down from 1,301.35
   _1.2103 Canadian dollars, down from 1.2130
   In London, the dollar fell against the British pound. It cost
$1.7870 to buy one pound, more expensive than $1.7827 late Friday.
   Gold opened in London at a bid price of $454.20 a troy ounce and
at mid-morning, the city's five major bullion dealers fixed a
recommended price of $453.90. Both were up from late Friday's bid
of $450.00.
   In Zurich, the bid price was $454.00, up from $450.40 late
Friday.
   Earlier, in Hong Kong, gold rose $3.15 to close at a bid $455.30.
   Silver was quoted in London today at a bid price of $7.24 a troy
ounce, up from late Friday's $7.08.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0048 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0714EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a PM-Obit-Yellowtail     06-20 0371</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Obit-Yellowtail,0386</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Patriarch Of Crow Indians Dies At 98</HEAD>
<DATELINE>LODGE GRASS, Mont. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A patriarch of the Crow Indian Tribe
who once turned down the post of commissioner of the Bureau of
Indian Affairs has died at age 98.
   Robert Summers Yellowtail Sr. died Saturday in his sleep at his
cattle ranch near this southeastern Montana reservation town.
   For 75 years, Yellowtail was known as a modern-day warrior who
fought the tribe's battles with words.
   His rejection of the BIA post came in the 1950s during the
Eisenhower administration.
   ``I never did get along with the Indian bureau, even when I
worked for it,'' he said in explaining his decision to turn down
the federal position.
   Born near Lodge Grass, Yellowtail graduated from Riverside High
School in California, studied law and planned to become a lawyer,
but instead became involved in tribal affairs and politics.
   The University of Montana School of Law eventually awarded him
an honorary degree.
   He served several times as tribal chairman, and the BIA
appointed him superintendent of his reservation _ the first Indian
to hold the post. He held the job 11 years.
   Yellowtail said his most memorable experience was a war of words
in the U.S. Capitol on April 6, 1917.
   All the great chiefs of the Crow Tribe had gathered in
Washington to fight homesteading on their reservation, site of
Custer's Last Stand on the Little Bighorn. Montana Sen. Thomas J.
Walsh, one of the most powerful men in Congress, wanted to open
their reservation to white settlement.
   The old chiefs did not speak English, and the task of arguing
their case before the Senate Indian Affairs Committee fell to
Yellowtail, a 28-year-old law student.
   ``The gallery was jammed full of spectators,'' Yellowtail
recalled years later. ``They said I would have 18 minutes to answer
Senator Walsh, but I took 4{ hours.''
   World War I interrupted his off-the-cuff speech: A bell summoned
the committee to join a special assembly in which President Woodrow
Wilson asked Congress to declare war on Germany.
   But the committee reconvened to hear Yellowtail's remarks, and
when he finished, Walsh eyed the comittee members and withdrew his
proposal.
   Funeral services were tentatively scheduled for Wednesday in
Lodge Grass.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0049 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0728EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a PM-TobaccoLaw 1stLd-Writethru a0410 06-20 0608</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Tobacco Law, 1st Ld-Writethru, a0410,0622</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Courts To Test California's Controversial Tobacco Liability Law</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: CORRECTS in 11th graf, `Almost as ...,' with deal formalized
on napkin, not law drafted. Also moved for AMs</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By JENNIFER McNULTY</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>SACRAMENTO, Calif. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   California's consumer products
liability law, which was passed in a late-night deal and grants
immunity to cigarette makers among others, will soon get its first
appellate court test.
   The law, negotiated at a posh eatery two blocks from the
Capitol, was passed as part of a package of tort reform legislation
approved last year.
   Supporters say it was designed to relieve court congestion by
discouraging costly, prolonged litigation like tobacco liability
cases, none of which has ever been won by a plaintiff in California.
   Critics call the law a consumer rip-off and say legislators have
no business trying to discourage such suits.
   One trial judge in Sacramento County has dismissed a tobacco
suit because of the law. But trial judges in Contra Costa, Napa and
Alameda counties have disagreed, and those cases will be heard in
the next few months by a state appeals court in San Francisco.
   Ultimately, all sides agree, the issue will have to be resolved
by the state Supreme Court.
   Last week's landmark decision in New Jersey, in which a jury for
the first time found a cigarette manufacturer liable in the
lung-cancer death of a smoker, renewed debate over the California
law.
   It grants immunity to manufacturers of common consumer products
intended for personal consumption that are found to be inherently
unsafe and are known to be unsafe by ``the ordinary consumer who
consumes the product with the ordinary knowledge common to the
community.''
   By specifically citing tobacco _ along with sugar, castor oil,
alcohol and butter _ as an example of a common consumer product,
the law singles out tobacco companies.
   ``California's legislation is unique in actually mentioning
tobacco,'' said Richard Daynard, a product liability professor at
Northeastern University's law school and chairman of the Tobacco
Products Liability Project in Boston, a group that encourages
product liability lawsuits. ``A sell-out, I think it might be
called.''
   Almost as controversial as the law itself is the way in which it
was developed in the hectic, waning hours of the 1987 legislative
session. Four of the state's most powerful special interests _
insurance, medicine, business and law _ participated in the final
negotiations, and the deal was formalized on a napkin at Frank
Fat's, a popular local restaurant.
   Consumer groups complain they were excluded from the final
meeting.
   Ironically, the tobacco industry maintained a relatively low
profile in what was seen more as a battle between lawyers and
insurance companies.
   ``The Legislature has made a decision that tobacco companies
should be immune from the smoker and health-type suits, based on
the statute,'' said Don Miles, a San Francisco attorney
representing the R.J. Reynolds tobacco company in a number of
liability lawsuits.
   In any event, the industry insists it is innocent. ``No one has
shown a causal relationship between smoking and any disease,'' said
Jim Fyock, a spokesman for R.J. Reynolds in Winston-Salem, N.C.
   Representatives of the Tobacco Institute, a Washington-based
trade association, declined comment on the state's tobacco
liability law.
   The Tobacco Institute has reported making campaign contributions
of more than $103,500 to California legislators and statewide
officeholders by May 21.
   The compromise containing the law _ dubbed The Deal in the
Capitol _ was hastily considered during hearings in the final six
hours of the legislative year.
   Supporters say subjecting the deliberately ambiguously worded
document to the usual drawn-out legislative hearing process would
have destroyed the fragile agreement.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0050 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0747EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i PM-Poland-Elections     06-20 0648</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Poland-Elections,0669</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Poles Stay Away From Elections in Record Numbers</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By JOHN DANISZEWSKI</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>WARSAW, Poland (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Poles ignored local and regional elections
in the greatest numbers in the nation's post-war Communist history.
The government blamed low turnout on economic doldrums _ not an
opposition boycott.
   Opposition politicians denounced Sunday's balloting as a farce,
and the banned Solidarity free trade union movement urged Poles not
to vote. Anti-vote protests took place in the Baltic port of Gdansk
and in Nowa Huta outside Krakow, scenes of two major strikes during
last month's labor unrest.
   Only about 56 percent of the 26 million eligible voters took
part, the state-run PAP news agency reported early today. The
previous low turnout, 67.3 percent, occurred in last year's
referendum on economic and political reform.
   The elections were the first under a new law that states voters,
in secret ballots, should be able to choose from two or more
officially sanctioned candidates for mosts seats.
   Solidarity leader Lech Walesa, whose hometown is Gdansk, said
the reforms were inconsequential, and that the labor federation had
urged supporters to boycott the polls.
   In Warsaw's Old City, police permitted about 1,000 young people
to hold a rally that ridiculed the election.
   ``Everybody to the polls,'' the youths chanted sarcastically,
laughing and holding up copies of the Communist Party newspaper
Trybuna Ludu.
   Government spokesman Jerzy Urban dismissed the protests as minor
and said most of the country was calm, with people ``showing much
interest in the new way of balloting.''
   Urban told a news conference Sunday afternoon that authorities
were expecting a lower turnout than in the last council elections
in 1984, when officials said about 75 percent of the voters
participated.
   ``The main reason for this (low turnout) are bad moods prompted
by the economic situation, the fact that there was a rent hike
before the election and ... negative phenomena,'' he said.
   At stake in the elections were 109,000 seats for councils of
towns, cities, counties, districts of larger cities, and provinces.
There were an estimated 254,000 candidates on the ballots.
   Urban said that in 4,000 races, members of different parties
were competing against each other _ the first such inter-party
races in Poland since 1947. He also said the 254,000 candidates
include 700 who could be considered independents or from the
opposition.
   However, candidates must be approved by party-directed electoral
colleges, allowing the party to keep political control.
   Walesa said: ``The so-called elections to People's Councils are
being held with low interest of the society.'' His comments were in
a statement read over the telephone from Gdansk by a spokesman.
   ``It indicates clearly that the reforms proposed by the
authorities are so insignificant that they do not solve the
problems the country is facing and do not meet the aspirations of
Poles,'' he said.
   About 1,500 people listened to Alojzy Szablewski, leader at last
month's nine-day occupation strike at the Lenin Shipyard, denounce
the elections after Mass outside St. Brygida's church in Gdansk.
   Police and demonstrators exchanged baton blows and rocks when
about 300 protesters tried to approach a worker's memorial near the
shipyard after Szablewski's speech, according to an eyewitness who
asked that his name not be used. The witness said some people were
injured and others detained, but he had no exact figures. A
government spokesman said four people were detained.
   In Nowa Huta, police prevented about 2,000 protesters from
marching to the city center, opposition spokesman Jacek Kuron said.
The marchers shouted, ``If you want to starve, go to vote,'' and
carried banners reading, ``Do not vote.''
   The demonstrators dispersed after about 20 minutes, but at least
a dozen people were detained, Kuron said.
   The elections were the first since a nationwide referendum Nov.
29 on political and economic reform in which the government failed
to win the legally required majority of registered voters because
of low turnout.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0051 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0904EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u i PM-Iran-Iraq 1stLd-Writethru a0508 06-20 0874</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Iran-Iraq, 1st Ld-Writethru, a0508,0898</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Iranian Rebels Seize Western Border Town</HEAD>
<HEAD>Precede MEHRAN</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: Leads with 13 grafs to update with rebels reporting more
fighting. Picks up 7th graf pvs ``Mehran, largely...''. Changes
byline.</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By ED BLANCHE</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>NICOSIA, Cyprus (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Iranian rebels today reported fierce
fighting with Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini's forces around the
captured western border town of Mehran.
   Hassan Abdin, a senior official of the Iraqi-based National
Liberation Army, said in a communique telexed to Nicosia that the
rebels plan to withdraw ``to new defensive positions.''
   He did not elaborate. However, the National Liberation Army
force that stormed Mehran on Sunday was expected to follow the
rebels' usual pattern of withdrawing from Iranian territory after
inflicting as much damage as possible on Khomeini's troops.
   In previous operations, the rebel force has rarely stayed inside
Iran for more than 48 hours before pulling back to bases inside
Iraq.
   The National Liberation Army claimed a force of 22 brigades
seized Mehran and high ground to the north and south in an
offensive launched Saturday night along a 30-mile front.
   However, Iran denied Mehran was seized and said the offensive
was mounted by Iraqi soldiers backed by chemical weapons. Iraq said
none of its soldiers were involved in fighting at Mehran.
   The rebels said they had no exact figures on enemy casualties
but estimated that hundreds were killed or wounded at least 1,400
were taken prisoner. The rebels reported at least 48 dead among
their own troops.
   Earlier today, the National Liberation Army said it planned
bigger offensives aimed at toppling the Tehran regime.
   Mahmoud Attai, the rebel force's chief of staff, said in a
communique: ``We are contemplating much larger offensives for which
the capture of the city of Mehran is considered only a prelude.''
   The communique was telexed to The Associated Press bureau in
Nicosia from the Baghdad headquarters of the Mujahedeen Khalq, or
People's Holy Warriors, the main component in the National
Liberation Army.
   Rebel officials refused to say how many of National Liberation
Army troops were involved in the offensive, but claimed it was
their largest operation since the group's founding a year ago.
   The rebels said their 30-mile-wide offensive had punched as many
as 12 miles into Iran and engaged about 14,000 government soldiers.
   In a communique telexed today to Nicosia from Baghdad, the
rebels said they had blown up hundreds of bunkers and captured
large amounts of heavy weapons and armored vehicles worth $1
billion.
   Mehran, largely destroyed in earlier battles between Iranian and
Iraqi armies, was filled Sunday with cheering, smiling, flag-waving
rebel troops, including many women. It has changed hands four times
since the outbreak of the Iran-Iraq war in September 1980.
   An Associated Press reporter found no evidence in the town
itself of a major battle: no bodies, no wounded, no destroyed
vehicles, no fires. The rebels said most of the fighting occurred
in the foothills of mountains to the north and south, where
artillery had controlled the town. The guerrillas said they
captured this high ground too.
   The rebels exulted over the victory, calling the battle a major
political and psychological blow to Khomeini's fundamentalist
regime.
   The rebel group is built around activists who helped Khomeini
overthrow Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlevi. It later was outlawed by
Khomeini's Islamic fundamentalists and created a base in Baghdad.
The group describes itself as Islamic socialists seeking a secular
regime in Iran.
   Supported by Iraq, the National Liberation Army has been playing
a small but growing role in the 8-year-old Iran-Iraq war. Western
diplomats in Baghdad put the number of the group's fighters at
about 15,000.
   A report Sunday by Iran's official Islamic Republic News Agency,
monitored in Nicosia, said ``a large number of Iranian Moslem
combatants were martyred and injured when Iraqi warplanes
chemically bombed the Changuleh region east of Mehran.''
   Earlier Sunday, IRNA said Iraqi warplanes bombed Mehran with
chemicals.
   The agency said Iranian units were dispatched to ``neutralize
the chemical weapons'' and that hundreds of Iraqis were killed in
fighting near the town. It also reported Iranian warplanes bombed
Iraqi positions in the Mehran area.
   IRNA also said an attack on Mehran was repulsed and Iranian
troops were mopping up enemy positions.
   Iraq denied its forces were involved in the attack on Mehran or
that chemical weapons were used. The rebels said no Iraqi troops or
artillery support was involved.
   It was not known how many Iranian government troops had held
Mehran, but it was clear the number was small.
   ``There was very little fighting,'' said Horie Aboi, 25, one of
dozens of women combatants in the town. Like most of the occupiers,
she looked fresh and her uniform was unsoiled Sunday. ``Because the
town was surrounded, they quickly gave up,''
   Fatima Tahouri, deputy commander of the forces occupying Mehran,
said there was stiff resistance when Iranian opposition forces
crossed the border and moved the few miles to the town.
   Asked why there was no evidence of fighting from a battle that
ended six hours earlier, she said: ``We've picked up a few things
since the morning.''
   With no civilian population and useful buildings, Mehran was
mainly a symbolic victory. Crumbled, blown-away mud structures are
nestled in a grove of battered palms.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0052 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0907EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u i PM-Israel 1stLd-Writethru a0513 06-20 0666</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Israel, 1st Ld - Writethru, a0513,0681</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Israeli Farmer Beaten to Death, Palestinians Suspected</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: LEADS with three grafs to update with Shamir threatening
punishment, picks up 2nd graf pvs, `Dozens of...' </NOTE>
<BYLINE>By ALLYN FISHER</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>JERUSALEM (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A 33-year-old Israeli farmer was bludgeoned to
death at a collective farm near the occupied West Bank and
authorities launched a search for Palestinian suspects, a police
spokesman said today.
   Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir, speaking on Israel radio, vowed
his government would make an ``appropriate response ... in due
course'' to the killing.
   Eighteen Arab suspects were detained, the radio said.
   Dozens of officers who rushed to the scene after the body was
found today sealed off the entrances to several neighboring Arab
villages, Etti Elinsky, a spokeswoman at the collective farm, said
in a telephone interview.
   Also today, the army closed three elementary and junior high
schools in the occupied Gaza Strip, bringing to eight the number of
schools closed since Saturday, Arab reports said.
   The closures aim to end participation by Palestinian youths in
the 6{-month uprising in the territories Israel seized in the 1967
Middle East war.
   On Sunday, Israeli troops shot and wounded a 20-year-old
Palestinian during a clash in the West Bank village of Salim. The
incident followed a weekend of sporadic clashes in which two
Palestinians were killed and 20 wounded.
   The farmer's slaying would be the fourth death of an Israeli
since the uprising began Dec. 8. At least 210 Palestinians have
died in the rebellion, most by Israeli gunfire, according to U.N.
figures.
   Mrs. Elinsky said the victim, Eli Cohen, was found at the
collective farm lying near his grape vines with a hole in his head
apparently caused by a beating with a heavy steel object.
   The farm is about 25 miles south of Jerusalem and borders three
Arab villages near the West Bank city of Hebron.
   Police spokesman Rafi Levy said police suspected an Arab was
responsible for the killing but declined to comment further.
   Mrs. Elinsky said Cohen never returned home after leaving to
spray his grape vines with insecticide Sunday evening. She said he
was found this morning by another farmer.
   She said Arabs were also suspected of committing several acts of
vandalism on the farm in the last four months. In one incident,
farmers found a black, green, red and white Palestinian flag in a
field strewn with uprooted vegetables, Mrs. Elinsky said.
   On Saturday, 160 grape vines were destroyed by fire, apparently
by arsonists, she added.
   Israelis have accused Palestinian arsonists of a rash of fires
that have destroyed tens of thousands of acres in the past few
weeks.
   ``There was a systematic policy of educating youths to violent
activities,'' an army spokesman said, adding that military
officials found ``inflammatory and anti-Semitic material'' in two
raids on the center.
   Also today, Israeli prison spokesman Johnny Tester said a
Palestinian prisoner from the Gaza Strip was freed on bail after
giving birth to a boy Friday. The Jerusalem Post said it was the
first time a security prisoner had ever been released on bail.
   The woman, Aisheh Said Odeh Al Kurd, 28, from the town of Rafah,
was detained about two months ago on suspicion of taking part in an
attempted bombing in a Tel Aviv suburb, as well as in incidents in
the Gaza Strip, the Post said.
   In Gaza, Israeli soldiers closed two of Gaza City's largest
outdoor marketplaces this morning and ordered merchants to reopen
in the afternoon.
   The measure, which affected more than 100 fruit, vegetable and
meat stands, appeared aimed at breaking the obedience of
Palestinian merchants to underground uprising leaders, who have
ordered stores shut in the afternoons.
   Also in Gaza City today, dozens of Palestinians staged a sit-in
in the Red Cross building in solidarity with Arab children involved
in the uprising. The two-hour sit-in was in keeping with the latest
underground leaflet, which called for a day to honor ``Palestinian
Children Martyrs.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0053 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0909EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i PM-Germany-Jackson     06-20 0217</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Germany-Jackson,0224</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>News Teams Driven Away With Cattle Prods During Michael Jackson
Concert</HEAD>
<DATELINE>BERLIN (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   East German police drove away Western news teams
with cattle prods as they tried to film East German youths massing
to hear a Michael Jackson concert just across the Berlin Wall, the
journalists said today.
   About 4,000 East Germans gathered near the Brandenburg Gate on
Sunday night. They came to hear the American rock 'n' roll star
perform about 200 yards away for thousands of others at his concert
in West Berlin.
   West German television news teams were on the East Berlin side
of the wall and tried to film the crowd.
   But East German security police, waving electronic cattle prods,
drove them away from the scene, said the journalists.
   West Germany's diplomatic mission protested the incident to the
East German government.
   Witnesses, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said there was a
large contingent of communist plainclothes security men deployed
among the East German fans. They said a few arrests were made.
   On Friday, about 2,000 East Germans gathered near the
Brandenburg Gate to hear the British rock group Pink Floyd, which
performed in West Berlin on the first night of a three-night
``Berlin Rock Marathon.''
   East German security police arrested about 40 people during that
concert, witnesses said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0054 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0909EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a PM-PriceyParking     06-20 0344</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Pricey Parking,0358</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>6-Year Court Battle Waged Over Parking Place</HEAD>
<DATELINE>HALLANDALE, Fla. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Ten lawyers have run up $35,000 in bills
to settle Natalie Maciborka's claim to a parking place at her
condominium, but she still can't park where she wants.
   The six-year tiff has alienated residents of the 10-story pink
stucco Ashleigh House.
   ``They've ganged up on me,'' said Mrs. Maciborka, 55, who drives
a 1982 white Pontiac Phoenix. ``They deprived me of my rights. They
scratched my car. They ostracized me.''
   Other residents see it differently.
   ``The whole thing is ridiculous,'' said resident Sam Miller, 75.
   ``We're just sick of it,'' said Virginia Tuck, 55. As president
of the condominium association, she has posted flyers in the
building elevators to keep residents up to date.
   The problem began in 1981 when Mrs. Maciborka sold her covered
parking space, No. 8, to residents Clarence A. Snyder and Robert J.
Zuttermeister. Mrs. Maciborka got their old space, uncovered and 70
yards away.
   A new condo board discovered a few years later that state law
and the building's bylaws prohibited the sale of parking places.
   Mrs. Maciborka tried to give Snyder back his $4,000, but he
refused it.
   Snyder then sued Mrs. Maciborka for $100,000, citing emotional
distress. She countersued Snyder and the homeowners association for
$200,000 and her old parking place.
   Broward Circuit Judge Daniel M. Futch ruled in March 1987 that
Snyder could keep No. 8. No damages were granted.
   Mrs. Maciborka wanted a clarification, and Circuit Judge Richard
D. Eade last week confirmed the final judgment and assigned space
No. 92 to Mrs. Maciborka.
   ``A guest space,'' she fumed. ``They've segregated me. There are
90 spaces for 90 residents, and they've punished me by putting me
in space No. 92 _ a guest space.''
   But other residents are unhappy about the condo association's
$11,000 legal bill.
   ``Why does the rest of the building have to pay for something
that was between her and someone else?'' Miller asked.
   Mrs. Maciborka has paid her $53.10 share of the condo's latest
legal bill.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0055 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0917EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i PM-Vietnam-Amerasians     06-20 0355</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Vietnam-Amerasians,0364</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>American Parents Search for Children in Vietnam</HEAD>
<DATELINE>BANGKOK, Thailand (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Four Americans returned to Vietnam
today to try to bring out children they left behind during the war
years.
   The group flew from Bangkok to Ho Chi Minh City, formerly
Saigon. They hoped to return in a week with their children and then
fly together to the United States.
   The four Americans have written their children letters and
telegrams telling them of their arrival in Ho Chi Minh City,
according to Bruce Burns, director of the California-based
Amerasian Registry. His group helps reunite Americans with
half-Vietnamese children they left behind.
   Burns said Sunday the Vietnamese government has cooperated with
the four cases.
   Vietnam has said that all of the country's Amerasians should
resettle in the United States and allowed an organized departure
program for regular resettlement. Vietnam also has cooperated with
resettling smaller groups on a more informal basis.
   The Americans were Joseph Crotty of Redding, Calif.; West
Anderson of Poulsbo, Wash.; and Verdun Andrus from San Diego,
Calif. The fourth is Mrs. Nam Small, the Vietnamese-American wife
of John Small of Westbrook, Maine.
   Crotty, 62, who was a Navy officer in Vietnam, left behind a
pregnant girlfriend, Pham Thi Tam, in August 1969, Burns said.
Their son, Khuc Thua Si, 18, was granted U.S. citizenship a few
years ago. Crotty retired from the Navy and the California Highway
Patrol.
   Anderson, 38, spent two years in the Army in Vietnam. He brought
his wife to the United States but left behind their daughter Nguyen
Thi Lang, now 16. Anderson works in a munitions factory, Burns said.
   Andrus, 59, a retired accountant, spent eight years in Vietnam
with an architectural and engineering firm. He has not seen his
wife, Hoang Son Andrus, since the communist victory in April 1975.
She lives with their 14-year-old son, Vo Thi Tham.
   Mrs. Small has not seen her son, Nguyen Ngoc Linh, 16, since
1974. At that time, she left to join her husband, but their son had
to stay for medical examinations. John Small, 45, a postmaster,
spent two years in the Army in Vietnam.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0056 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0946EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>d a PM-BRF--AppleCommercial     06-20 0164</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-BRF--Apple Commercial,0167</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Apple Computer Commercial Of Venice Wheelchair Ride Wins Addy
Award</HEAD>
<DATELINE>LOS ANGELES (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   An Apple Computer commercial showing the
wheelchair exploits of a teen-ager on the streets of Venice Beach
claimed top honors at a national advertising awards ceremony.
   The light-hearted Apple commercial, set to Randy Newman's
happy-go-lucky song, ``I'm Different,'' featured 16-year-old actor
Jody Kemp, who lost the use of both legs in an auto accident.
   The advertising spot was named top TV commercial of the year
Sunday at the American Advertising Federation's 20th annual Addy
Awards.
   Produced by the Los Angeles office of BBDO Worldwide, the
commercial offered glimpses of Kemp struggling to get over a curb,
wheeling in to a record shop, and even taking a spill while playing
football. And of course, he was shown at the keys of an Apple
computer.
   The spot was directed by Joe Pytka, whose Venice-based
production company, is best known for doing several of singer
Michael Jackson's Pepsi ads.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0057 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0948EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u i PM-Philippines-Earthquake 2ndLd-Writethru a0505 06-20 0441</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Philippines-Earthquake, 2nd Ld-Writethru, a0505,0450</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Earthquake Injures 4 In The Philippines</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: Updates throughout, officials say four confirmed injured,
other details. No pickup. Adds byline.</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By CLARO CORTES</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>MANILA, Philippines (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A strong earthquake shook the central
Philippine island of Mindoro before dawn today, injuring at least
four people and damaging many buildings, officials and witnesses
said.
   A local radio station said a 63-year-old male resident of the
Mindoro town of San Jose, apparently the hardest-hit area, suffered
a heart attack and died moments after the 4:21 a.m. earthquake.
   Seismologists in Manila, 160 miles north of the affected area,
said the tremor measured 5.4 on the Richter scale and was followed
by repeated aftershocks.
   Initial radio reports said the earthquake caused some
fatalities. But San Jose's private radio station, DZYM, and the
Philippine National Red Cross said later the only confirmed
casualties were a woman and three children who were injured when a
wall collapsed.
   The wife of a DZYM station technician and the couple's three
children were pinned by a bedroom wall that fell on them, DZYM
announcer Nathan Cruz told The Associated Press in a
radio-telephone interview. All four were taken to a hospital.
   Cruz said the earthquake caused a fissure on the town's
outskirts near the coast and that the sea level rose by at least
five feet shortly after the temblor. The water quickly receded, he
said.
   Remedios Eraham, head of the Red Cross chapter in San Jose, said
she and other relief officers surveyed damage to the town before
flying to Manila on unrelated business.
   ``This was the first time people there can remember ever feeling
an earthquake, and they are really scared,'' Mrs. Eraham said.
   She said no building collapsed in San Jose although many
concrete walls were badly cracked.
   Mrs. Eraham said she had received no report of damage or
casualties in other Mindoro towns.
   ``I would presume there are no other serious injuries, otherwise
my staff would have already reported it by radio,'' she said. There
are no telephone connections from Manila to the island.
   Raymundo Punongbayan, director of the Philippine Institute of
Volcanology and Seismology, said the center of the earthquake was
about 12 miles beneath the sea at a point some 37 miles southwest
of San Jose. He said the tremor registered 5.4 on the Richter scale.
   The Richter scale is a gauge of the energy released by an
earthquake, as measured by the ground motion recorded on a
seismograph. Every increase of one number means that the ground
motion is 10 times greater. A quake of magnitude 5 can cause
considerable damage in populated areas.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0058 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0954EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a PM-JailbreakKilling     06-20 0238</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Jailbreak Killing,0243</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Search Continues for Gunman, Two Escapees</HEAD>
<DATELINE>OAK GROVE, La. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A gunman who freed two prisoners after
killing a sheriff's deputy apparently plotted the breakout with his
fellow inmates before his release from the jail five days earlier,
authorities said.
   Authorities believe the man who killed Deputy Jeff Gathings was
19-year-old Frank Bancroft, who had been released from the jail
Tuesday after a sentence for theft, said West Carroll Parish
Sheriff Gary Bennett.
   Brothers Sonny and Frank Caston were set free by the gunman
early Sunday, Bennett said. Both men had criminal records and were
in the parish jail awaiting trial on burglary and arson charges.
   A deputy in the West Carroll Parish Sheriff's office said Sunday
night that the search for the men had been expanded from northeast
Louisiana into Mississippi and Arkansas.
   Road blocks were erected at Oak Grove, about 10 miles south of
the Arkansas state line, after the escape. Authorities found a
black pickup truck that may have been used by the men Sunday
afternoon near the Castons' hometown of Lake Providence, on the
Mississippi River about 10 miles east of Oak Grove.
   Bennett said Gathings was alone in the radio room, next to the
jail, when the gunman entered 2:30 a.m. Sunday.
   Inmates heard the blast of the 12-gauge shotgun and saw Bancroft
let the Castons out of jail, Bennett said. ``All of them (the
inmates) know him.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0059 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0957EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i PM-Israel-Prisoners     06-20 0164</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Israel-Prisoners,0170</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>72 Prisoners Slash Wrists to Protest Conditions</HEAD>
<DATELINE>JERUSALEM (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Seventy-two Jewish prisoners slashed their
wrists to protest conditions in the southern Israeli prison where
they are jailed, a Prisons Authority spokesman said today.
   All the prisoners were in good condition after the incident at
Beersheva prison Friday, and most suffered only superficial
injuries, spokesman Johnny Tester said.
   ``Their act wasn't suicide. It was a show, a protest. We've got
peace and quiet at the moment. We hope it will last,'' Tester said.
   Tester said the prisoners cut their wrists with razors and
knives after they were disciplined Wednesday for bad behavior by
having their telephone and exercise privileges revoked.
   Tester said the prisoners had refused to do daily chores, such
as cleaning their cells, and would not eat breakfast.
   He said prison doctors treated the inmates, most of whom are
jailed for petty offenses such as vandalism and robbery. None
required hospitalization.
   Tester said the prisoners' privileges were restored Saturday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0060 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1008EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i PM-Iran-Britain     06-20 0530</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Iran-Britain,0546</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>British Parliamentarians Arrive On Mission to Improve Relations</HEAD>
<DATELINE>NICOSIA, Cyprus (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Four British lawmakers arrived in Tehran
today on a private mission to improve Britain's relations with
Iran, the official Islamic Republic News Agency reported.
   The Iranian agency, monitored in Nicosia, said officials of
Iran's Foreign Ministry and parliament met the British
parliamentarians at Tehran's airport.
   ``Relations between Tehran and London and issues of mutual
interest'' will be among topics discussed, IRNA said. It said the
British government ``has expressed interest in solving financial
disputes between the two countries and later ... improving
Tehran-London ties.''
   IRNA said the Britons were scheduled to hold talks with senior
Iranian officials during their three-day visit. It gave no details.
   The British legislators said before leaving London that they
hoped to meet with Iran's parliament speaker, Hashemi Rafsanjani.
He is the most powerful figure in the country after Ayatollah
Ruhollah Khomeini.
   IRNA indicated that Britain's release last month of Abdullah
Nouripour, an Iranian who had been held on charges of trying to
cause an explosion, had spurred efforts to improve relations. It
said Nouripour returned to Tehran on May 19.
   The British lawmakers are Cyril Townsend and Robert Hicks of
Britain's governing Conservative Party; Thomas Clarke of the
opposition Labor Party; and Lord Tordoff of the liberal Social
Democrats. Their trip was arranged by Archbishop of Canterbury
Robert Runcie.
   Townsend said before leaving London, ``We think the climate has
been improving in recent weeks and we like to think that four
members of Parliament going to Tehran ... can nudge that progress
along.''
   The lawmakers cautioned against raising hopes that their visit
could lead to the release of British hostages held in Lebanon by
pro-Iranian Shiite Moslems.
   Clarke said the group was not taking any messages from the
hostages' families. ``We are fully aware of how strongly they feel
and that's one of the reasons it would be quite improper for us to
build up people's hopes.''
   Three Britons are among the 18 foreigners, including nine
Americans, missing after being kidnapped in Lebanon. The hostage
held longest is American Terry Anderson, chief Middle East
correspondent for The Associated Press. He was kidnapped March 16,
1985.
   Britain's relations with Tehran have been strained since
Khomeini's 1979 Islamic revolution toppled Shah Mohammad Reza
Pahlavi. The Iranians have long considered Britain the second-most
hostile Western nation next to the United States.
   Relations deteriorated last year when a British diplomat was
kidnapped in Tehran and an Iranian diplomat was arrested in England
for shoplifting. Both countries later expelled diplomats.
   Hopes that relations could improve increased June 10 when
Britain and Iran agreed to compensate each other for damage
inflicted on their embassies in violence several years ago in
Tehran and London.
   The Iranians, alarmed at their growing isolation during their
nearly 8-year-old war with Iraq, have been making clear efforts to
patch up ties with Western European nations, apparently hoping to
draw them away from alignment with the United States.
   France restored relations with Iran last week after an 11-month
break, and West Germany has been discussing bolstering its
relations with Tehran.
   The French move came after French hostages held in Lebanon were
freed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0061 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1009EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r p PM-VirginiaPolitics 2ndLd-Writethru a0540 06-20 0668</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Virginia Politics, 2nd Ld-Writethru, a0540,0684</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Black Candidates Highlight Virginia Politics</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: Subs 6th graf, `The GOP...' to CORRECT by adding the word
`Republican.'</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By JOE TAYLOR</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>RICHMOND, Va. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A black Democrat is frequently mentioned as
the leading candidate for governor next year. Now Republicans have
tried to steal some of the opposition's thunder by nominating a
black as their candidate for the Senate.
   Lt. Gov. L. Douglas Wilder is a moderate Democrat favored
despite his unannounced status to win the party's nomination for
governor next year. If elected, he would become America's first
black governor since Reconstruction.
   Maurice A. Dawkins, the Republicans' U.S. Senate nominee, is a
conservative supporter of Pat Robertson, a former Kennedy-Johnson
Democrat who left the party during the liberal McGovern period.
   Their fortunes are partly a product of circumstance, said Larry
Sabato, a University of Virginia political scientist.
   The state's voting age population is 16 percent black, large
enough to be courted but not large enough for there to be racial
polarization, Sabato said.
   The GOP decided to try to woo blacks away from Democrats by
nominating Dawkins, the first black Republican to run for Congress
in Virginia since Reconstruction. Dawkins is best known for his
unsuccessful bid for the party's lieutenant gubenatorial nomination
in 1985, in an election eventually won by Wilder.
   ``It's a natural reaction to get to the massive black vote for
Democrats,'' Sabato said of Dawkins' Senate nomination. ``It makes
it very difficult for the Republicans to win when they have to get
an overwhelming white vote. They need to break down this barrier.''
   Dawkins, a 67-year-old retired minister who works as a lobbyist
in Washington, was nominated June 11 in a three-way contest.
   His rousing nomination speech, which mixed praise for God with
criticism of Democratic flag-bearer Charles S. Robb, won the
support of a large bloc of uncommitted delegates.
   Wilder, a lawyer and former state senator from Richmond, said
the nomination seemed to be ``orchestrated to arrive at a point and
that point is other than winning.''
   Wilder said the Senate race probably will result in an
``exceedingly convincing victory'' for Robb, a former governor who
was unopposed for the Democratic nomination and is heavily favored
to win in November.
   Political observers expect Sen. Paul Trible, a Republican who is
retiring from the Senate, will run for governor, although he has
not declared his candidacy. Marshall Coleman, a former attorney
general has said he will run, although he has not formally declared.
   Sabato agreed with Wilder that the Dawkins campaign is unlikely
to prevail or to pull any significant black support from Robb. He
said the Dawkins nomination's chief effect was to steal some of the
thunder from the expected nomination of Wilder for governor.
   ``Blacks are not simply black,'' he said. ``They're also
Democrats. They have the strongest party identification of any
group in the electorate.''
   However, at least one prominent black Democrat says she will
vote for Dawkins instead of Robb.
   Mary B. Cox of Richmond, coordinator of Jesse Jackson's Virginia
campaign, led a revolt against Robb by about 60 Jackson dissidents
at the state Democratic convention two weeks ago.
   Robb refused to endorse Jackson after Jackson won the state's
Super Tuesday primary, and suggested Jackson should play an
``inspirational role'' rather than make policy in a Democratic
administration.
   ``The Republicans gave us a nice receptacle to give our vote
away,'' Ms. Cox said.
   But over the weekend, Ms. Cox said she could not vote for
Dawkins because he supported South African-backed rebels fighting
Angola's communist government. She said Jonas Savimbi's rebel group
is ``sponsored by the illegal white racist regime of South Africa.''
   She said she knew Dawkins was conservative but had no idea ``he
was this conservative.''
   Steve Haner, director of the GOP Caucus in the state General
Assembly, said Ms. Cox's decision shows ``she understands what one
of Maurice's messages is going to be: that for years the Democrats
have taken advantage of the black vote.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0062 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1015EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r p PM-BRF--CarperAnnounces     06-20 0183</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-BRF--Carper Announces,0187</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Carper Announces Re-election Plans</HEAD>
<DATELINE>GEORGETOWN, Del. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Delaware's congressman, Democrat Thomas
R. Carper, announced today he plans to seek a fourth term.
   So far, he has no opponent. Carper said he will be disappointed
if he doesn't have a Republican challenger by the July filing
deadline.
   Carper, 41, and his wife, Martha, are expecting their first
child in mid-July. Carper said he wants to spend more time with his
family and will probably cut back slightly in his traditional
grassroots campaign style of trying to meet every resident in the
state.
   Carper told supporters he was concerned about ``the kind of
country and the kind of world in which our child _ our children _
will grow up.''
   ``In a very real way, the actions of our next president and the
next Congress will affect not just the first two or four years of
our children's lives. ... our actions will follow them'' beyond
high school, he said.
   He said the problems facing the nation today include an adequate
defense, health care, decent housing and a competitive economy.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0063 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1020EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>b w Scotus-Clubs     06-20 0044</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>Scotus-Clubs,50</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>BULLETIN</HEAD>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The Supreme Court today let New York City bar
discrimination against women and minorities by private clubs with
more than 400 members, giving cities and states new ammunition in a
growing legal assault on such practices.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>MORE</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0064 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1031EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u i PM-SouthKorea-Hyundai     06-20 0399</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-South Korea-Hyundai,0415</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Union Leaders Call Off Strike At Hyundai</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By M.H. AHN</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>SEOUL, South Korea (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Union leaders today called off a
prolonged strike at South Korea's largest automaker after agreeing
to resume negotiations with management on wage increases.
   Labor union officials at Hyundai Motor Co. ended a 24-day strike
for higher wages, telling workers they were damaging the nation's
No. 1 automaker. The leaders said the company had assured them of
pay raises.
   Another Hyundai subsidiary, Hyundai Precision and Industry Co.,
a major container maker, returned to normal today after its 2,000
striking workers ended a 25-day strike with an 18.5 percent pay
raise.
   And two other major companies, Tongil Co., an auto parts maker,
and Samsung Shipbuilding Co., the nation's third largest
shipbuilder, ended 40-day strikes today after their workers
received pay increases of up to 26.5 percent.
   Hyundai Motors announced production would resume Tuesday at the
company's assembly plant at Ulsan, an industrial city on the
southeast coast. The workers had been on strike since May 28.
   Union leader Lee Yung-bok told about 10,000 autoworkers
assembled at the Ulsan plant that the union decided to change its
tactics and negotiate a wage increase with management after
resuming work.
   After Lee's announcement, the management and the union resumed
negotiations.
   The company had offered workers a pay increase of $106 a month.
The union is demanding $130. Hyundai autoworkers earn an average of
$800 a month after six months, including allowances.
   It was not clear whether 20,000 unionized members of the
company's 25,000-member work force would fully comply with the
union decision.
   About 500 workers at the rally booed and protested the decision
to end the strike. They said they did not want to resume work until
a wage settlement was reached.
   A leader of a hard-line union faction, speaking on condition of
anonymity, said many union members would show up at the plant
Tuesday, but would refuse to work unless the wage dispute was
settled by then.
   Company officials said they were confident, however, that
production would resume Tuesday, maintaining that only a few union
members opposed the termination of the strike.
   Hyundai Motors officials said the strike had cost the company
production of 61,504 cars valued at $435 million, including 35,838
cars for export.
   Auto exports, mainly to the United States, are a major part of
South Korea's export-oriented economy.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0065 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1042EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>d a PM-BRF--AbandonedTot     06-20 0155</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-BRF--Abandoned Tot,0158</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Girl Abandoned At Hospital Cafeteria</HEAD>
<DATELINE>DENVER (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A toddler who says her name is Nicki was found
abandoned in a hospital cafeteria with an unsigned note from her
mother, hospital officials said.
   St. Joseph Hospital workers found the girl Sunday morning
sitting alone with a small bag containing clothes, toys and the
note, nursing supervisor Joan Greland said.
   ``The note indicated the mother cares tremendously about her but
there was no way she could handle the situation. She loves her very
much'' but was not able to take care of her, Greland said.
   The child, wearing a white print dress, was ``cheerful and
friendly. She thought everything was just fine,'' Greland said. She
was taken to police headquarters and then to the Denver Social
Services Department shelter, authorities said.
   If the parents are not found, the child will remain in the
shelter while a search goes on for other relatives.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0066 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1055EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r w PM-Scotus-Promotions     06-20 0813</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Scotus-Promotions,800</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Court to Study Dispute Over Birmingham Plan for Promoting Black
Firefighters</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By JAMES H. RUBIN</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The Supreme Court, in an important new test of
affirmative action, today agreed to study a dispute over a
Birmingham, Ala., plan for promoting more black firefighters.
   The justices said they will study efforts by city officials and
others to kill a challenge by white firefighters who say the plan
makes them victims of reverse discrimination.
   The case is likely to provide one of the first indications of
how the court's newest member, Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, will
vote on affirmative action disputes. He succeeded retired Justice
Lewis F. Powell, for years a pivotal figure in the court's
consideration of programs giving preferential treatment to
minorities and women.
   A decision in the Birmingham case is expected sometime in 1989.
   At issue is whether, and under what conditions, a court-approved
agreement between public officials and minority groups may be
challenged by employees who say the plan victimizes them.
   The case began in 1974 when Birmingham officials and the
Jefferson County Personnel Board were sued by the National
Association for the Advancement of Colored People and individuals
who charged them with discriminating against blacks in hiring and
promotion.
   Eventually, both sides reached agreement on an extensive plan
that includes long-term and interim annual goals for hiring blacks
as firefighters and promoting blacks to higher ranks.
   The Birmingham Firefighters Association, representing most of
the city's firefighters, objected that the agreement would hurt its
members. But the association's opposition to the plan was rejected
by a federal judge who in 1981 issued consent drecrees approving
the plan.
   There were 453 city firefighters at the time, including 42
blacks. None of the city fire department's 140 lieutenants,
captains or battalion chiefs were black. But nearly half the
workers in Birmingham's civilian labor force were black.
   After the firefighters association challenge was rejected, seven
white male firefighters sued the city and the county personnel
board, charging reverse discrimination. They said less qualified
blacks would be given promotions over them.
   A federal judge ruled that the white firefighters were bound by
the court consent decrees authorizing the affirmative action plan.
The judge dismissed the white firefighters' suit.
   But the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals last December
reinstated it. ``The policy of encouraging voluntary affirmative
action plans must yield to the policy against requiring third
parties to submit to bargains in which their interests were either
ignored or sacrificed,'' the appeals court said.
   It noted that the plan did not place a great burden on the city,
since it was called upon only to reallocate promotions and not
create new jobs.
   ``In real terms, the relief contemplated by the decrees was to
come not from the hands of the city, but from the hands of the
employees who would have otherwise received the promotions,'' the
appeals court said.
   It ordered a trial judge to decide whether the white
firefighters were discriminated against unlawfully, saying that the
earlier consent decrees authorizing the affirmative action plan do
not insulate it from their lawsuit.
   The consent decrees give the plan no more legitimacy than any
other voluntary program of racial preferences would have , the
appeals court said.
   It added that the affirmative action plan must be analyzed with
``heightened scrutiny'' _ meaning city officials must have a
``compelling reason'' to impose a policy that disadvantages whites.
   The appeals court said such analysis is required by a recent
Supreme Court ruling that upheld the promotion of a woman over a
marginally more qualified man. Generally, the high court has
required ``heightened scrutiny'' only when courts study government
programs that allegedly disadvantage minorities.
   The Supreme Court last January split, 4-4, in upholding a New
York City affirmative action plan for promoting more blacks and
Hispanics in the city police department. That plan was challenged
unsuccessfully by white officers.
   Because of the tie vote, the justices were unable to decide
issues similar to those raised in the Birmingham case.
   The Reagan administration supports the 11th Circuit court ruling
that permits the white firefighters to challenge the Birmingham
plan. Nonetheless, administration lawyers urged the Supreme Court
to study the case to settle the issue of whether whites should be
allowed to sue in such instances.
   Birmingham city officials led by Mayor Richard Arrington, who is
black, were joined by the Jefferson County Personnel Board and
black firefighters in urging the high court to overturn the 11th
Circuit court ruling.
   City officials said the appeals court ruling threatens to reopen
old wounds.
   ``The reverse discrimination litigation has cost the city
substantial time and expense and has re-awakened racial division
and animosity that the city has worked to put behind it,'' the
officials said.
   The cases are Martin vs. Wilks, 87-1614; Personnel Board of
Jefferson County vs. Wilks, 87-1639; and Arrington vs. Wilks,
87-1668.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0067 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1057EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i PM-India-Plane     06-20 0188</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-India-Plane,0196</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Boeing 737 Crash Lands, Engine Fire Breaks Out</HEAD>
<DATELINE>NEW DELHI, India (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A jetliner carrying 123 passengers crash
landed on its belly after its landing gear failed, and an engine
caught fire as the aircraft slid along the runway, an airline
spokesman said today.
   No one was injured in the landing, but the Times of India said
one woman went into shock and had to be sedated.
   The Indian Airlines Boeing 737 made the emergency landing Sunday
night at New Delhi International Airport, according to O.P. Garg, a
spokesman for the airline. He said the plane was on a flight from
the city of Srinagar in the northern state of Kashmir.
   The plane dragged for nearly a mile on the tarmac before air
traffic controllers noticed a fire in its left engine, newspapers
said.
   Firefighters put out the flame with foam, Garg said. At the
time, the passengers and crew were still aboard. They later left
the plane through emergency exits.
   Garg said two pilots had been suspended pending an investigation.
   ``We don't know whether it was human error or mechanical
failure,'' he said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0068 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1058EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r w PM-Scotus-NashvilleDeseg     06-20 0432</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Scotus-Nashville Deseg,420</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Justices Say State Need Not Pay School Desegregation Costs</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By RICHARD CARELLI</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The Supreme Court today refused to order
Tennessee to help pay for continuing efforts to racially
desegregate Nashville area public schools.
   The court, without comment, let stand a ruling that sheilded the
state from making such expenditures.
   The controversy has its roots in a 1955 lawsuit over racial
segregation in Nashville schools.
   Until the Supreme Court's landmark 1954 decision outlawing
racial segregation in public schools, Tennessee law barred black
and white children from attending the same schools.
   In 1960, the Metropolitan County Board of Education of Nashville
and Davidson County was substituted as a defendant in the case.
   In 1981, the local school board asked a federal judge to require
Tennessee to pay the full cost of implementing court-ordered
desegregation remedies, which include extensive busing.
   U.S. District Judge Thomas A. Wiseman Jr. ruled in 1985 that
forcing Tennessee to pay for ``costs already sustained'' before the
school board filed its complaint in 1981 would violate the
Constitution's 11th Amendment giving states broad protections
against being sued.
   But Wiseman ruled that the 11th Amendment does not shield the
state from helping pay for continuing desegregation efforts.
   He ordered Tennessee officials ``to assume 60 percent of the
costs directly attributable to Metro's desegregation program from
and after ... March 16, 1981.''
   Tennessee appealed, arguing that it should not have to pay
anything. The local school district also appealed, contending that
the state should have to pay all desegregation costs.
   The 6th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ruled for the state last
Dec. 30.
   ``The federal courts would not be justified in shifting any of
the costs in question from Metro (the local school district) to the
state of Tennessee,'' the appeals court said.
   The Supreme Court in 1977 ruled that Michigan could be forced to
help pay the costs of desegregating Detroit's public schools.
   But the 6th Circuit court said there is a difference between the
Detroit case and the Nashville case.
   ``The monetary relief granted in (the Detroit case) was merely
ancilliary to other affirmative relief,'' the appeals court said,
``and the monetary relief granted here is not.''
   It noted that Michigan officials had been ordered to help put
some desegregation programs into effect, not merely pay for
programs undertaken by the Detroit school authorities.
   The appeals court said Tennessee's duty to eliminate the
vestiges of past segregation in education ``was discharged long
before Metro filed its ... complaint against the state.''
   The case is Metropolitan County Board vs. Tennessee, 87-1774.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0069 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1058EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r w PM-Scotus-Hypnosis     06-20 0475</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Scotus-Hypnosis,450</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Court Refuses to Free Some States From Having to Pay for Hypnosis
Expert in Missouri Case</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By JAMES H. RUBIN</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The Supreme Court today refused to free some
states from having to pay for a hypnosis expert when a penniless
criminal defendant challenges a prosecution witness's hypnotically
enhanced testimony.
   The court, without comment, rejected an appeal by Missouri
prosecutors seeking to reinstate the rape conviction of a man who
was identified by the victim after she was hypnotized.
   Leatrice Little was convicted of rape and sentenced to 25 years
in prison for attacking a woman in her Cape Girardeau apartment
Aug. 13, 1980. He has since been freed on parole.
   The victim said she saw the face of her assailant briefly, when
a blouse he had taken from her closet and used to cover his face
slipped for at least a few seconds.
   After police hynotized the victim, she identified Little from a
group of photographs. At a subsequent police lineup and again at
the trial, she identified Little as her attacker.
   Little said he was too poor to pay an expert to challenge the
reliability of the hypnotically enhanced testimony. He said an
expert might show that the victim had been given improper
suggestions under hypnosis.
   The 8th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals last December ruled that
Little was denied a fair trial, and it overturned his conviction.
   ``The denial of a state-provided expert on hypnosis to assist
this indigent defendant rendered the trial fundamentally unfair and
requires that the conviction be set aside,'' the appeals court said.
   Its ruling was binding on all courts in Missouri, Arkansas,
Iowa, Minnesota, Nebraska, North Dakota and South Dakota.
   But hypnotically enhanced testimony was ruled inadmissible in
Missouri courts some time after Little was convicted.
   The appeals court noted that the Supreme Court last year ruled
that all hypnotically enhanced testimony offered by a criminal
defendant may not be excluded automatically. But that ruling did
not deal with hypnotically enhanced testimony by prosecution
witnesses.
   The appeals court said if such methods for obtaining testimony
are to be used, poor defendants should not be placed at a
disadvantage.
   The appeals court noted that the Supreme Court in 1985 ruled
that states must pay for psychiatric experts for a defendant in a
capital trial when the defendant's sanity is a significant issue.
   ``There is no principled way to distinguish between psychiatric
and non-psychiatric experts,'' the appeals court said. ``The
question in each case must be not what field of science or expert
knowledge is involved, but rather how important the scientific
issue is in the case and how much help a defense expert could have
given.''
   The appeals court said Little ``demonstrated that an expert in
hypnosis would have substantially aided his defense.''
   The case is Armontrout vs. Little, 87-1532.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0070 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1101EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r w PM-Scotus-Indians     06-20 0458</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Scotus-Indians,470</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Court To Decide Whether Indian Tribes May Control Some Non-Indians</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By RICHARD CARELLI</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The Supreme Court today agreed to decide
whether Indian tribes may control, through tribal zoning laws, the
use of land owned by non-Indians within a reservation's boundaries.
   The justices, in a case of significance to any state in which a
reservation is located, said they will resolve a dispute involving
the Yakima Indian Reservation in Washington state.
   A federal appeals court ruled last Sept. 21 that the
Confederated Tribes and Bands of the Yakima Indian Nation has a
legitimate interest in regulating _ and may zone _ so-called ``fee
land'' located on its reservation but owned by individuals, most of
them not tribal members.
   The 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals said the tribe's interest
in regulating that land must be balanced against the interests of
Yakima County and the federal government.
   The Yakima reservation encompasses 1.3 million acres of land,
most of it within Yakima County. About 5,000 tribal members and
about 20,000 non-members live within the reservation's boundaries.
   About 800,000 acres, including some 740,000 in Yakima County,
fall within the reservation's ``closed area'' in which the tribe's
zoning ordinance allows no permanent structures.
   Philip Brendale, who owns 160 acres of land within the
reservation's closed area, was barred by the ordinance from selling
his land for residential development.
   And Stanley Wilkinson, who owns about 100 acres just within the
reservation's northern boundary, was barred by the ordinance from
subdividing a portion of his land.
   Neither man is a member of the Yakima tribe. They, along with
Yakima County officials, contend that the tribe lacks the legal
authority to control the use of their land.
   Brendale, Wilkinson and Yakima County filed separate appeals
from the 9th Circuit court's ruling.
   The county's lawyers argued that the appeals court ruling, at
least in its effect on the reservation's ``open area,'' conflicts
with past Supreme Court rulings limiting tribal authority over
non-Indians.
   The county's appeal cited a 1978 decision in which the justices
ruled that Indian tribes do not have the authority to prosecute
non-Indians for crimes committed on reservations.
   The appeal also relied on a 1981 decision in which the high
court ruled that Montana, and not an Indian tribe, had the
authority to regulate the fishing and hunting of non-Indians on the
tribe's reservation.
   The appeals acted on today, seeking to limit tribal control of
land use, were supported in ``friend-of-the-court'' briefs
submitted by the National Association of Counties and seven states.
   The states are Washington Arizona, Nevada, New Mexico, South
Dakota, Utah and Wyoming.
   The case cases are Brendale vs. Confederated Tribes, 87-1622;
Wilkinson vs. Confederated Tribes, 87-1697; and Yakima County vs.
Confederated Tribes, 87-1711.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0071 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1102EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i PM-Britain-IRA     06-20 0424</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Britain-IRA,0436</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Two Given Long Sentences For Plotting IRA Campaign</HEAD>
<DATELINE>LONDON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Two Northern Ireland men were sentenced today to
17 and 20 years in prison for plotting an Irish Republican Army
terror campaign in Britain. The prisoners raised their fists to
supporters as they were led away.
   Patrick McLaughlin, 40, received a 20-year sentence for
conspiring to cause explosions in England. Liam McCotter, 25, was
sentenced to 17 years on the same charge. Both are from Belfast.
   ``You contemplated explosions which were likely to endanger
human life,'' High Court Justice John Owen. ``I bear in mind there
was sufficient explosive material to cause 25 such explosions.''
   He gave the longer sentence to McLaughlin because of
McLaughlin's two previous convictions, for riotous behavior in 1971
and for possession of a gun and ammunition in 1974.
   After the sentences were read, a man in the public gallery
shouted in Gaelic, ``Our day will come!''
   McLaughlin and McCotter raised their fists, and McCotter chanted
IRA slogans as the men were taken away. They were driven from the
courthouse in an armed convoy with a helicopter hovering above.
   Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist squad arrested the pair Feb. 19,
1987 after following them to two weapons caches containing almost
200 pounds of high explosives, detonators, timing devices, three
automatic rifles, two handguns, and ammunition.
   The weapons were hidden in plastic garbage cans buried in
Macclesfield and Delamere forests south of Manchester, in northern
England.
   Court testimony did not reveal what the targets may have been,
but anti-terrorist sources mentioned as a possibility last June's
general election campaign. Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher won a
third term in the election.
   Police said the weapons were smuggled into England through
northern Wales.
   McLaughlin and McCotter were kept under surveillance for four
days as they brought the materials into the forests and hid them.
They made cuts in tree bark to mark the hiding places.
   Police also followed the pair to a nighttime rendezvous with a
trawler at Camaes Bay in north Wales, where arms reportedly changed
hands. Police feared exposing their operation and allowed the
vessel to leave.
   Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist squad is still searching for two
people in the case. One is a man known only as Alan Robinson, who
rented the apartment used by McLaughlin and McCotter. Maps of
London and Manchester were found in the apartment. The other
suspect has not been identified.
   The IRA is outlawed in Britain. It is fighting to drive the
British from Northern Ireland and unite the province with the Irish
Republic.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0072 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1104EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r w PM-Scotus-PrisonDoctors     06-20 0469</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Scotus-Prison Doctors,460</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Court Rules Prison Inmates May Sue Doctors in North Carolina Case</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By RICHARD CARELLI</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Prison inmates may sue in federal courts the
doctors who treated them behind bars, the Supreme Court ruled
unanimously today.
   The court, reinstating a North Carolina inmate's lawsuit, said
prison doctors _ both government employees and providers of medical
services under contract _ may be sued under a much-used civil
rights law.
   The decision could make other professionals doing government
work easier targets for civil rights lawsuits as well.
   Some states and municipalities have begun to experiment with
privately run prisons and jails.
   The ``privitization'' movement was sparked, in part, by a desire
to shield governments from legal liability. Today's decision could
become an obstacle to that movement.
   At issue in the case decided today was whether such professional
services are rendered ``under color of state law'' _ a necessary
ingredient to sustain a civil rights lawsuit.
   Writing for the court, Justice Harry A. Blackmun said they are.
   Blackmun added, ``Defendants are not removed from the purview of
(the civil rights law) because they are professionals acting in
accordance with professional discretion and judgment.''
   Quincy West filed a $6 million federal lawsuit against Dr.
Samuel Atkins after being treated for a basketball injury in 1983.
   West tore the Achilles tendon in his left leg while playing at
the Odom Correctional Center in Jackson, N.C. He was treated by
Atkins at the North Carolina Central Prison Hospital in Raleigh.
   Atkins, who maintains a private practice in Raleigh, provides
medical services to inmates under a contract with the state.
   He had decided against surgery in West's case, and instead set
the leg in a cast and prescribed medicine.
   West's lawsuit contended that Atkins ``through his negligence
and deliberate indifference ... has denied (West) proper and
reasonable medical treatment.''
   West sought $1 million in compensatory damages and $5 million in
punitive damages.
   West's suit was dismissed and the 4th U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals upheld the dismissal.
   The appeals court ruled that a private doctor like Atkins had
not acted ``under color of state law'' in providing treatment for
West, and therefore could not be sued under the much-used civil
rights law West had invoked.
   The appeals court added: ``A professional, when acting within
the bounds of traditional professional discretion and judgment,
does not act under color of state law, even where ... the
professional is a full-time employee of the state.''
   That ruling appeared to apply to doctors, lawyers, engineers,
architects and other professionals holding government jobs.
   The Supreme Court reversed the appeals court ruling, saying
Atkins' ``delivery of medical treatment to West was state action
fairly attributable to the state, and (Atkins) therefore acted
under color of state law.''
   The case is West vs. Atkins, 87-5096.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0073 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1105EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u i PM-PuertoRico-Bomb 1stLd-Writethru a0561 06-20 0175</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Puerto Rico-Bomb, 1st Ld-Writethru, a0561,0175</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Bomb Explodes in Car, Killing 1 Man and Injuring Another</HEAD>
<NOTE>EDS: SUBS grafs 3-5, `Police said...police said,' to CORRECT
spelling of victim's name, ADD hometown. Pick up last graf,
`Mayaguez is...'</NOTE>
<DATELINE>SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A bomb exploded early today in a
car in the western city of Mayaguez, killing one American and
critically injuring another, police said.
   Police said the blast blew the car to pieces at 1:15 a.m. near
the warehouse of the Yaucano coffee company.
   Police said an American identified as Jeff Parker was killed
inside the car. They said he was 35 to 40 years old. The blast
critically injured Antonio Axel Gonzalez Olmedo, about 25, a
Cuban-American who was standing near the vehicle, authorities said.
   Gonzalez Olmedo's driver's license listed his hometown as Miami.
Parker's hometown was not immediately available.
   Gonzalez Olmedo was registered at a hotel at the nearby beach
resort town of Cabo Royo, police said.
   Mayaguez is a city of about 50,000 people on Puerto Rico's west
coast.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0074 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1108EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r w PM-CosmosClub 1stLd-Writethru a0430 06-20 0703</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Cosmos Club, 1st Ld-Writethru, a0430,670</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Exclusive Washington Club Will Begin Accepting Women Members</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: Inserts 1 graf with Scotus action after 5th graf pvs, There
will</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By TOM SEPPY</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Four women stand ready to break the sex
barrier at the exclusive Cosmos Club in the nation's capital, which
has scrapped its 110-year-old male-only policy.
   The membership voted overwhelmingly over the weekend to begin
allowing women to join the club, which was founded by geologist
John Wesley Powell in 1878 and has boasted Supreme Court justices,
Nobel and Pulitzer prize-winners and other notables as members.
   Tedson J. Meyers, the club's president, told a news conference
Saturday that the vote was almost unanimous _ ``about 98 percent,
as best as the eye can tell'' _ to begin accepting women for
nomination to membership.
   He said that shortly after the vote, the names of four women
were submitted _ a microbiologist, a public servant, a consumer
advocate and a journalist. Meyers declined to identify any of the
nominees.
   There will be the club's regular 60-day posting period and
nomination review process, he said, adding: ``On that basis, we
look forward with pleasure to having women members in the Cosmos
Club this fall.''
   The vote came two days before the Supreme Court, broadening the
power of cities and states to ban discrimination against women and
minorities, said today that New York City could bar such
discrimination in clubs with more than 400 members.
   Meyers said there were only 14 votes against changing the bylaws
to admit women among the nearly 800 members attending the meeting
at the club's ornate mansion on Washington's Embassy Row.
   ``We stopped counting (yes votes) when we got to 700,'' he said.
A two-thirds majority of members present at the meeting was
required.
   ``We the officers, are amazed, surprised and delighted by the
outcome,'' said Meyers, a lawyer and former member of the City
Council of Washington. ``We knew there was a changing mood among
the membership, but did not know it would be so overwhelming.''
   In fact, the Cosmos Club broke two traditions on Saturday. In
addition to voting to accept women as members, it was also the
first time the club had held a news conference or issued a public
statement.
   Proposals to admit women to the club twice were voted down, in
1973 and 1975. Those defeated proposals had been presented in
petitions by club members, while the one that was approved Saturday
came from the club's leadership.
   Last fall, the Washington Human Rights Office ruled that ``there
is probable cause to believe'' that the club's men-only policy
violated the city's anti-discrimination law. The office was ready
to order public hearings on the case, which could have resulted in
the loss of all city licenses and permits if the all-male policy
had continued.
   Meyers said although the legal issues confronting the club ``may
have been a catalyst, the great majority of members do not believe
that the membership policy of this club is a legal issue. Rather
the issues are ethical and moral. They related to social changes
members individually could accept or ignore as they prefer.''
   The club has about 350 membership vacancies in its limits of
2,500 resident and non-resident categories. The club has between
3,000 and 3,100 members, including those with senior and emeritus
status.
   Meyers said the club has set no goal for the number of female
members the club will admit. ``We look forward anxiously to having
many women,'' he said.
   Until 1973, women guests were required to enter the club through
a side door and remained in the ``ladies lounge'' until escorted
into a first-floor dining room. But for more than a decade, nearly
all club facilities have been open to wives and widows of members,
as well as unescorted female guests.
   Women were not allowed in the second-floor members dining room,
however, except on Thursday and Friday evenings and weekends.
   The club, which was started principally by white Protestants,
has included Catholics and Jews for many years. It first admitted
blacks in 1962, and now has about three to four dozen black
members, according to The Washington Post, although no count by
race is maintained.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0075 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1112EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i PM-Czechoslovakia-Expulsions     06-20 0411</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Czechoslovakia-Expulsions,0424</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Communist Daily Blasts Deported Western Activists</HEAD>
<DATELINE>PRAGUE, Czechoslovakia (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The Communist Party daily today
charged that 32 Western activists expelled from Czechoslovakia
abused their rights as tourists by pursuing political goals.
   The foreign activists arrived in Czechoslovakia on tourist
visas, but ``the aim of their trip was not the beauties of
Prague,'' Rude Pravo said. They were from 16 countries and were
attending an unofficial East-West seminar on human rights and peace.
   Seminar participants said the expulsions came after police
disrupted meetings Friday and Saturday, detained Czechoslovak
participants, confiscated materials prepared for the seminar and
warned Westerners not to continue the seminar.
   The seminar had been organized by the Czechoslovak human rights
group Charter 77 and the newly established Czechoslovak Independent
Peace Association.
   ``We gladly open our home to all honest tourists coming to us
with sincere tourist interests, but we can show the door to
provocateurs abusing international tourism for political aims,''
Rude Pravo said.
   ``As facts told by the uninvited `tourists' show, both emigre
centers in Western Europe and other international reactionary
circles which ... aim mainly at slanders ... were interested in
holding the gathering,'' the article said. It appeared under the
headline, ``Visitors with Codes.''
   A protest statement drafted by Western participants and signed
also by Czechoslovak activists said the activities of the
Czechoslovak government ``fly in the face of recent East bloc
promises for democratic reform.''
   At a news conference in Vienna on Sunday, four Americans who
attended the seminar said police arrested 20 Eastern European
conference participants.
   ``We are dismayed and deeply concerned at the arrest of 19
Czechoslovakians and one Hungarian, and the police state tactics of
the Czechoslovakian government,'' the protest statement said.
   Judith Hempfling from Amherst, Mass., told reporters in Vienna
after returning from Prague that the statement was read to about 30
people who had gathered at the Czech dissident Saturday morning.
   She said the petition was circulated for signatures as police
came upstairs.
   Rob Leavitt of the Massachusetts-based Institute for Defense and
Disarmament Studies said police put the foreigners in police vans
and drove them to Prague's central police station.
   He said the foreigners were kept for about five hours in a
waiting room and were then told they had five hours to leave the
country.
   The other Americans at the news conference were Joanne Landy, of
the New York-based Campaign for Peace and Democracy _ East-West,
and Brad Knott, a peace activist from Washington, D.C.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0076 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1114EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r w PM-Scotus-Residency     06-20 0496</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Scotus-Residency,480</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Court Places New Limits on States' Powers to Impose Lawyer
Residency Requirements</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By JAMES H. RUBIN</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The Supreme Court today placed new limits on
the power of states to impose residency requirements that restrict
the number of lawyers licensed to practice within their borders.
   The justices, voting 7-2, barred Virginia officials from
reinstating a residency requirement successfully challenged by a
lawyer living in neighboring Maryland.
   ``The issue is whether the state has burdened the right to
practice law, a privilege protected by the (Constitution), by
discriminating among otherwise equally qualified applicants solely
on the basis of citizenship or residency,'' said Justice Anthony M.
Kennedy for the court. ``We conclude it has.''
   The court struck down a Virginia rule that allowed lawyers
living in the state to practice there _ without passing the
Virginia licensing examination _ if they were licensed for at least
five years in another state that gives Virginia-licensed lawyers
the same privilege. Out-of-state residents were denied the same
treatment.
   The Virginia rule, enforced by that state's Supreme Court, was
challenged by Myrna E. Friedman.
   Ms. Friedman, licensed to practice law in Illinois since 1977
and in the District of Columbia since 1980, was living in
Arlington, Va., when she went to work as a lawyer with ERC
International Inc. in Vienna, Va., in 1986.
   After getting married, she moved to her husband's home in nearby
Cheverly, Md., but continued to work in Virginia.
   Ms. Friedman sought admission to the Virginia bar without having
to take that state's bar exam.
   The Supreme Court said today that Virginia's residency rule
violates the Constitution's privileges and immunities clause. The
provision says, ``The citizens of each state shall be entitled to
all privileges and immunities of citizens in the severl states.''
   The justices said the Virginia rule violates the clause by
favoring in-state residents with the same general qualifications as
lawyers living outside the state.
   Kennedy said the state failed to provide adequate reasons to
justify such discrimination.
   He said the question is ``whether lawyers who are admitted in
other states and seek admission in Virginia are less likely to
respect the bar and further its interests solely because they are
non-residents. We cannot say this is the case.''
   The court upheld a ruling by the 4th U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals which said Virginia's rule is a form of economic
protectionism.
   Virginia officials said at least six other states have similar
residency rules. They are Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Ohio, Rhode
Island and Wyoming.
   Today's ruling is in line with a 1985 high court decision that
said states generally may not require lawyers to be residents to
practice within their borders. The 1985 ruling threw out a New
Hampshire residency rule challenged by a lawyer who lived in
neighboring Vermont and had passed the New Hamshpire licensing exam.
   Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist and Justice Antontin Scalia
dissented today.
   The case is Virginia Supreme Court vs. Friedman, 87-399.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0077 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1116EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r w PM-Scotus-AlabamaDeseg     06-20 0438</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Scotus-Alabama Deseg,430</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Justices Affirm Ruling That Judge Shoult Not Have Presided</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By RICHARD CARELLI</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The Supreme Court today let stand a ruling
that unraveled years of litigation in a still-pending lawsuit to
racially desegregate Alabama's colleges and universities.
   The court, without comment, refused to disturb a ruling that the
federal judge who found ``vestiges of segregation'' in the state's
schools of higher education should not have presided over the case.
   U.S. District Judge U.W. Clemon, the first black federal trial
judge in Alabama, ruled in 1985 that authorities would have to take
steps to racially integrate such state-run schools as Auburn
University, the University of Alabama and Troy State.
   The Reagan administration had sued the state's higher education
system for racial discrimination in 1983, the first such claim by
the administration against a state college system.
   The 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ruled last Oct. 6 that
Clemon should have disqualified himself from the case. The appeals
court said that Clemon, as a former state legislator, ``actively
participated in the very events and shaped the very facts that are
at issue in this suit.''
   Clemon once served as chairman of the state Senate Rules
Committee. In that role, the appeals court said, he ``played a
critical role in the confirmation of those individuals nominated
for positions on the board of trustees of the defendant
institutions.''
   The appeals court, however, rejected arguments that Clemon
should have disqualified himself because of his past civil rights
activity and because his children may some day attend some of the
schools involved.
   ``To disqualify minority judges from major civil rights
lititgation solely because of their minority status is
intolerable,'' the 11th Circuit court said.
   Clemon's 1985 ruling against the state school officials followed
15 months of pretrial proceedings and a 22-day trial over which he
presided.
   The 11th Circuit's ruling in October sent the case back for a
new trial before another federal judge.
   The appeal acted on today was filed by Alabama State University
and Alabama A&M University, two predominantly black schools whose
officials say have had their integration attempts thwarted by
official state policies, and individuals.
   Justice Department lawyers, although contending that Clemon's
disqualification by the 11th Circuit court was wrong, urged the
high court to reject the appeal.
   ``The question is inherently fact-bound and non-recurring,''
they said, adding that the government ``will continue adequately to
represent the students and faculty of the Alabama schools _ the
persons who would truly benefit from the desegregation of the
Alabama system of higher education.''
   The case is Board of Trustees vs. Auburn University, 87-1200.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0078 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1135EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a PM-SkinheadAbduction     06-20 0422</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Skinhead Abduction,0435</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Girl Now Says `Skinheads' Abducted Her In Seattle, Not Portland</HEAD>
<DATELINE>SEATTLE (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A 16-year-old girl says five young women with
shaved heads tied her up, cut off her hair, kicked her, burned her
with cigarette lighters and dumped her by a highway, then fled with
her car and pet snake.
   The abductors were described as ``Skinheads,'' members of a
white supremacist youth gang.
   Three teen-age girls were in a British Columbia jail for
investigation of possessing stolen property, abduction and assault
in the incident, said Constable David Wilks of the Royal Canadian
Mounted Police. They were arrested for speeding in the stolen car
Saturday in Golden, British Columbia, about 250 miles east of
Vancouver, police said.
   Police were searching for two other suspects.
   The victim, from Portland, Ore., suffered scratches and burns.
She also said her abductors cut her long hair to within a half-inch
of her scalp.
   ``She had a distinct lack of hair,'' said Snohomish County
sheriff's Sgt. Sam Goss.
   Her pet boa constrictor was recovered in its cage in the car.
   The abducted girl told The Oregonian on Sunday that she was
kidnapped early Saturday in Seattle by five Skinhead girls, then
dumped about 20 miles north of Everett, which is north of Seattle.
   ``They were drunk, and trying to prove that they were tough,''
she said.
   She initially had told police she was abducted in Portland, but
said Sunday that she had been trying to keep her father from
finding out she had been in Seattle, about 170 miles from Portland,
with his car.
   The teen-ager told The Oregonian that her abductors forced a rag
into her mouth, tied her hands with a rope and bound her feet and
hands with a chain.
   ``They threw me into the back of my car and covered me with
jackets,'' she said.
   ``They started kicking me and I thought I was going to die,''
she said. ``They used cigarette lighters to burn me on my legs and
arms, to see if I was dead. I played dead.''
   Police said the five eventually dumped her along Interstate 5.
She said she freed herself from the ropes and crawled to the
freeway, where a motorist stopped and took her to a hospital.
   Authorities in Everett were pressing for immediate return of two
of the jailed teen-agers who are U.S. citizens and illegal aliens
in Canada, said Snohomish County sheriff's Deputy Rhonda Pince. The
third, a resident of Calgary, Alberta, would be brought back after
extradition hearings, she said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0079 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1136EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u a PM-NurseAcquitted     06-20 0501</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Nurse Acquitted,490</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Charges Dropped Against Nurse Accused of Killing Three</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By RICHARD KEIL</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>UPPER MARLBORO, Md. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A judge today dismissed murder
charges against a nurse accused of killing three patients with
lethal doses of potassium, saying the prosecutors had done no more
than prove she was present when the patients died.
   After listening for five weeks to the prosecution's case, Prince
George's County Circuit Judge Joseph Casula said that ``the state's
reach hopelessly exceeded its grasp.''
   Prosecutors had alleged that Jane Bolding, 30, an intensive care
nurse at Prince George's Hospital Center, killed three patients by
injecting them with potassium chloride, which can induce heart
attacks in high doses.
   Defense attorneys engaged in extensive cross-examination of the
state's witnesses, but did not call any witnesses.
   When the prosecution rested its case last week, Bolding's
attorney asked Casula to dismiss the charges.
   Casula, who has been hearing the case without a jury, recessed
the trial Wednesday to study defense arguments that the
prosecution's key piece of evidence _ a study indicating a high
incidence of cardiac arrest during Bolding's shift _ failed to
prove the nurse was responsible for the deaths.
   Casula said today the prosecutors had shown no connection
whatsoever between the defendant and any unlawful act, and said
defense attorneys had successfully argued that numerous other
medical factors could have been responsible for the cardiac arrests.
   As Casula read his ruling, Bolding sat upright without
expression on her face. After the judge finished, she broke into a
wide grin and hugged each of her three attorneys, blinking back
tears.
   The strongest aspect of Assistant State's Attorney Jay Creech's
case had been a study by the federal Centers for Disease Control
that showed Bolding was the primary nurse on duty when 57 heart
attacks occurred. The next highest number for any nurse was five.
   Dr. Jeffery J. Sacks, who wrote the study, testified that
intensive care patients at Prince George's Hospital Center had 88
cardiac arrests on shifts Bolding from between January 1984 to
March 1985, the period that was examined.
   Health statistics indicated that only 31 seizures should have
occurred, and Sacks testified that the chances of Bolding not being
responsible for the unusually high number were about one in 100
trillion.
   However, Sacks also stressed under cross examination that his
study could not be used to address intent to commit a crime, and
Casula ultimately ruled that using the study to convict Bolding
would set a dangerous legal precedent.
   ``It would create a mathematical quagmire'' if circumstantial
evidence from the statistical study had been used to reach a guilty
verdict, Casula said.
   ``Simply put, the evidence failed to supply the missing link
that would connect the defendant with the alleged criminal act.''
   No one testified to seeing Bolding inject any patients with the
potassium chloride, and no cause of death for any of the three
murder victims was ever established, although postmortem
examinations showed that each had higher than normal potassium
levels.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0080 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1156EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r w PM-Scotus-Contract     06-20 0318</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Scotus-Contract,300</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Court Reinforces Federal Judges' Powers to Decide Where Some
Trials Held</HEAD>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The Supreme Court today reinforced the power
of federal judges to decide where the trials of lawsuits will be
held when the opposing sides are from different states.
   By a vote of 8-1, the justices said a suit by the Stewart
Organization of Birmingham, Ala., against the Ricoh Corp., a
leading copy machine maker with headquarters in West Caldwell,
N.J., may be tried in federal court in New York City.
   The Stewart company had a contract with Ricoh to sell its copy
machines in central Alabama. It accused Ricoh in a 1984 federal
lawsuit of breaching the contract and other violations.
   The contract between the two companies contained a clause that
said any such dispute between them must be tried in federal court
in New York City, where Ricoh conducts much of its corporate
activities.
   The Stewart firm sued in federal court in Alabama and a judge,
relying on state law, ruled that the case should be tried in
Alabama.
   But the 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, based in Atlanta,
Ga., overturned the judge's ruling and transferred the case to
federal court in New York City. The appeals court said federal law,
rather than Alabama law, takes precedence.
   The Supreme Court agreed that federal judges may disregard state
laws in such instances and may assign cases to whatever locations
are best suited to the convenience of the opposing sides and
witnesses ``in the interest of justice.''
   Justice Thurgood Marshall, writing for the court, said the
federal law properly leaves it up to judges to decide where cases
will be tried.
   But the ruling leaves open the possibility that the case still
could be tried in Alabama if lower courts decide that would be the
most convenient forum.
   Justice Antonin Scalia dissented.
   The case is Stewart Organization vs. Ricoh Corp., 86-1908.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0081 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1210EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a PM-PrisonEscape 1stLd-Writethru a0585 06-20 0354</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Prison Escape, 1st Ld-Writethru, a0585,0360</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Search Expands to Tennessee</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: Subs 2nd, 4th grafs to CORRECT to Banister, sted Bannister.
Subs 9th graf, `An aerial...' with 1 graf to update with Hicks
saying he believed no inmates in Tenn.</NOTE>
<DATELINE>EDDYVILLE, Ky. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The search for five inmates who escaped a
state prison expanded into Tennessee after authorities discovered
the fingerprints of a convicted murderer in a garage where a car
was stolen, officials said.
   The car was taken Sunday morning in Dover, Tenn., and
fingerprints left behind indicate that Joseph Montgomery had been
there, said Barry Banister, a spokesman for the Kentucky State
Penitentiary.
   Montgomery, 27, of Louisville, was serving 31 years for murder,
burglary, assault and other charges. He was among eight inmates,
including four convicted murderers, who escaped Thursday from the
prison. One inmate was captured Friday and two on Saturday, all
near the prison.
   Within two hours of the escape, a pickup truck was stolen a few
miles from the penitenitary, Banister said. Authorities are
investigating whether Montgomery, and perhaps some of the other
escapees, drove to Dover, about 50 miles south of the penitenitary.
   The truck has not been found, he said.
   Sheriff David Hicks of Stewart County, Tenn., said his
department received a complaint Saturday night about three people
trying to flag down cars on Tennessee 232 in a sparsely populated
area 15 miles from Dover.
   ``The officer confronted them and they ran from him and dropped
a cooler and shirt,'' Hicks said.
   Eddyville officials were go to Tennessee with comparison
fingerprints from the five escapees to see if they matched prints
from the cooler and shirt, Hicks said.
   Hicks said he believed any escapees who were in Tennessee left
after the car theft.
   Among the inmates still at large were two convicted murderers.
The others were serving terms for various crimes.
   The eight sawed their way to freedom from an upper level of
Cellhouse 3, which is reserved for the penitentiary's worst
disciplinary cases. The breakout was apparently planned well in
advance, with inmates on the cellhouse's lower level setting small
fires to distract guards.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0082 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1225EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a PM-WomanAbducted 3rdLd-Writethru a0580 06-20 0509</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Woman Abducted, 3rd Ld-Writethru, a0580,0520</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Man Charged In Death Of Banker's Wife</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: Subs 5th graf, `Farmer Richard...' to CORRECT to Greenfield,
sted Greenville.</NOTE>
<DATELINE>CORRY, Pa. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A book store operator was charged today with
kidnapping a bank manager's wife who was found shot to death after
her husband received a vague ransom note, authorities said.
   David C. Copenhefer, 40, of Corry, appeared before Magistrate
Patsy Nichols today on charges of kidnapping, attempted robbery and
attempted extortion in the disappearance of Sally Weiner, 37, of
Corry.
   He was not charged in Mrs. Weiner's death. Ms. Nichols, who set
bond at $100,000, said the investigation is continuing.
   Copenhefer was arrested at his home today after police seized
weapons, including high-powered automatic rifles, from his home and
took other evidence from Corry Books & Cards, which Copenhefer
operated. The book store is within sight of a Pennbank branch,
where Mrs. Weiner's husband, Harry, is manager.
   Farmer Richard Stutzman was checking cattle fence on his farm
Sunday morning when he found Mrs. Weiner's body in a clearing five
miles northwest of here, said state police Capt. Douglas Greenfield.
   Dozens of police officers and FBI agents had been combing Erie
County in northwestern Pennsylvania for Mrs. Weiner since Friday
afternoon, when she told her husband in a phone call she would be
killed if he didn't meet a ransom demand, said Pennbank President
Thomas Doolin.
   Mrs. Weiner died of a single gunshot wound to the head, said
Erie County Coroner Merle Wood. ``I would say she died instantly,''
Wood said.
   He said it wasn't known when Mrs. Weiner died or what type of
gun killed her.
   When Mrs. Weiner talked to her husband, she seemed to be reading
from a statement, Doolin said.
   ``She said they were holding a gun to her and that there was a
death threat,'' Doolin said Saturday. ``She said ... he would find
instructions on what to do in a paper bag in the parking lot
outside the bank.''
   Weiner was told to buy a walkie-talkie, set it at a certain
frequency, and go to an isolated, wooded area outside Corry Friday
night, Doolin said.
   Weiner followed the instructions but left after two hours when
no one contacted him, Doolin said. No further contact was made.
   The note, which directed Weiner alone to bring money from the
bank, did not specify an amount, ``which is kind of unusual,''
Doolin said.
   Weiner's mother, Susan Weiner of Erie, said her daughter-in-law
was lured to a restaurant near the Corry Plaza Shopping Center by a
caller who said he wanted her to help plan a surprise civic honor
for her husband.
   She said her son and daughter-in-law had been married 13 years
and were the parents of a boy and girl. A former music teacher,
Mrs. Weiner played piano at several churches and was active in
church groups, Susan Weiner said.
   ``She was a beautiful musician,'' Susan Weiner said. ``She was
hoping to begin teaching again in the fall because she loved her
work and she loved music.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0083 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1228EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a PM-Sharpton-Taxes     06-20 0322</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Sharpton-Taxes,0331</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Sharpton Reportedly Has Not Filed Tax Returns For Several Years</HEAD>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A black activist who is at the center of the
Tawana Brawley dispute has not filed income tax returns for several
years and is under investigation for possible tax evasion, New York
Newsday reported today.
   The newspaper said that four sources familiar with the
investigation said the Rev. Al Sharpton has not filed a return for
at least three years. Sharpton acknowledged Sunday that he had not
filed returns in recent years, but said he had not intended to
defraud the government.
   Government investigators believe that though Sharpton has no
visible source of income or regular-paying job, he must be
supported by sources of reportable income, Newsday reported.
   Sharpton said his income comes from speaking engagements,
although he also has a record promotion company. He refused to say
how much he earns.
   Newsday said its sources noted that the tax case is in a
preliminary stage and that no decision has been made to charge
Sharpton. Failure to file an income tax return for a single year is
punishable by up to six years in prison.
   Sharpton said he recently directed his accountant to petition
for a late filing for last year's and previous years' taxes.
   Sharpton is a key adviser to the family of Miss Brawley, a black
Wappingers Falls teen-ager who says she was abducted and sexually
assaulted by at least six white men in November.
   But she and her advisers, who also include two lawyers, have
refused to cooperate with police. Sharpton and others involved in
the case have claimed black people cannot get justice through the
normal channels of investigation.
   Miss Brawley's mother has been in a church since last week,
after an arrest warrant was issued over her refusal to testify
before a grand jury. Officials have so far declined to go into the
church to take her into custody.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0084 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1230EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i AM-BRF--Opera     06-20 0088</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-BRF--Opera,0090</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Strike at La Scala Averted</HEAD>
<DATELINE>MILAN, Italy (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A strike that could have silenced the summer
opera season at La Scala theater has been averted.
   Negotiators on Sunday reached agreement on a pay increase for
the orchestra, thus salvaging Monday night's opening of Giuseppe
Verdi's ``Nabucco,'' directed by Riccardo Muti.
   Orchestra members had said they would strike if their new
contract did not give them better wages, but they agreed to a
accept a provisional pay increase and pursue regular contract
negotiations in mid-July.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0085 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1231EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i AM-BRF--Burma-Students     06-20 0123</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-BRF--Burma-Students,0127</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Suspend Classes After Student Demonstrations</HEAD>
<DATELINE>RANGOON, Burma (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Authorities on Monday suspended classes at
a Rangoon university after several days of peaceful student
demonstrations.
   The official government radio said all classes at the Rangoon
Arts and Sciences Univeristy, its affiliate colleges in the capital
and the Institute of Economics were suspended beginning Wednesday.
   The terse announcement did not say why classes were being
suspended nor when they would resume.
   The students, who said they had been told by teachers that
classes would resume July 3, have been demanding that Ne Win's
socialist-style one-party government release detained classmates,
reinstate those expelled for participating in previous protests,
and legalize student unions.
   The unrest followed bloody street protests by students in March.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0086 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1233EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a PM-ChemicalFire-Explainer 2ndLd-Writethru a0527 06-20 0480</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Chemical Fire-Explainer, 2nd Ld-Writethru, a0527,0489</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Residents Discover Chlorine's Danger</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: Recasts lead. Subs 8th graf, `By the...,' and 9th graf,
`Undiluted, however...', to clarify details on pellets. Subs 17th
graf, `I'm sure...', and adds four grafs to add other chlorine
effects. Edits throughout to tighten.</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By CAROLYN LUMSDEN</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>SPRINGFIELD, Mass. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The chlorine that bleaches clothes and
cleans swimming pools also can be deadly, and was used as a weapon
in World War I.
   Up to 30,000 people were evacuated from their homes over the
weekend because of dangerous fumes from three fires at a plant that
makes chloride pellets for disinfecting swimming pools.
   The first fire started Friday morning and the last was
extinguished Sunday morning at the Advanced Laboratories plant.
   Unlike household bleach, which is only 8 percent to 10 percent
chlorine, the powder used at the plant to make pellets was 75
percent to 85 percent chlorine, said John J. Higgins, regional
director of the state Department of Environmental Quality
Engineering.
   Pellets of chlorine compounds contain 750,000 parts per million
but in a swimming pool they dilute to 1 to 3 parts per million
parts of water.
   Undiluted, however, such high concentration of chlorine, along
with binders and fillers, form nitrogen gas and hydrochloric acid
when mixed with water, Higgins said. Hydrochloric acid is
corrosive, burning skin and eyes and, at worst, causing respiratory
failure. Nitrogen gas is harmless, but officials were concerned
that pockets of the gases would build up under pressure.
   ``If you put a teaspoon of chlorine in a swimming pool, there's
no reaction, but put a teaspoon of water in a barrel of chlorine
and you're going to get an explosion,'' said Fire Commissioner
Darnell Williams.
   Although chlorine reacts violently with water, the cloud that
hovered over the city, stretching two miles long and four blocks
wide, had to be sprayed constantly with water to dissipate it,
Higgins said.
   ``We had to try to get it up into the atmosphere, where it could
turn to steam as it rose,'' he said. ``Whenever we cut back on the
water, it would take a nose dive.''
   If the cloud hadn't been sprayed, Fire Chief Raymond Sullivan
said, it would have hung over Springfield for weeks.
   The gas had apparently withered trees and grasses in the
neighborhood, Sullivan said.
   ``Besides the main cloud that moved off to the northeast, there
was a small cloud that moved down the Mill River valley into a
parking lot behind the firefighters,'' he said. ``It got so bad
they had to eventually turn the hoses on that, too. And you can see
today that it's really devastated the vegetation.''
   The chlorine, he said, burns leaves just as it does skin.
   Firefighters also found when they reached into their pockets
that their pennies had turned green from the oxydizing effects of
the chlorine on brass.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0087 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1237EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i AM-BRF--Soviet-Turkey     06-20 0118</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-BRF--Soviet-Turkey,0122</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Agreement Signed to Open New Border Crossing</HEAD>
<DATELINE>ANKARA, Turkey (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Turkey and the Soviet Union signed an
agreement Monday to open a third crossing on their 365-mile-long
border.
   Transportation Minister Ekrem Pakdemirli of Turkey and his
Soviet counterpart, Yuri Suhin, signed the accord.
   The crossing is at the divided village of Sarp in the Black Sea
province of Artvin. The gate will be opened later this year after a
bridge is built over the Coruh River that forms the border,
Pakdemirli said.
   The two other crossings are in Dogukapi in Kars and in the Agri
province.
   Most of the travelers using the gates are citizens with
relatives on the other side of the border.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0088 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1237EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u a PM-ChemicalFire 3rdLd-Writethru a0584 06-20 0651</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Chemical Fire, 3rd Ld - Writethru, a0584,0663</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>4,600 Residents Still Barred Before Final Effort To Douse Chlorine</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: Subs 5th graf, `He said...' to UPDATE with mayor saying
residents can go home this afternoon. Subs last graf to delete
now-redundant first reference to the mayor.</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By CAROLYN LUMSDEN</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>SPRINGFIELD, Mass. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Firefighters stopped pumping water
today and began using chemicals on the smoldering shell of a
swimming pool chlorine plant that burned for three days, emitting
deadly fumes and keeping 4,600 people out of their homes, officials
said.
   Tests showed no dangerous levels of chlorine fumes around the
four-story Advanced Laboratories plant, fire spokesman Giorgio
Placanico said today. Tablets of chloride, a chlorine compound, had
been bursting in small explosions overnight, giving off
yellow-green chlorine gas.
   A state environmental official said firefighters began dumping
neutralizing chemicals this morning on small hot spots in the
remains of the factory.
   ``The danger is eased,'' said John J. Higgins of the state
Department of Environmental Quality Engineering.
   Mayor Richard Neal said today nearly all the 4,600 people still
homeless probably can return to their homes during the afternoon.
Only a few homes and businesses near the fire site will remain off
limits, he said.
   Higgins estimated there are 25 to 50 large containers of
chloride and hundreds of smaller ones still in the building.
Firefighters will try to remove the containers, he said.
   Police said they suspect there were a few break-ins on the
perimeter of the evacuated area, but no large-scale looting.
   At its peak, the blaze caused a gas cloud two miles long and
four city blocks wide, sending 275 people, including 22
firefighters, to hospitals with complaints of skin burns and
respiratory problems. Only two people were hospitalized, and they
were in stable condition today.
   The last of three fires was brought under control Sunday
morning, allowing more than 20,000 people to return to homes near
the pre-Civil War building. But the threat from fumes kept away
4,600 people living closest to the plant.
   ``They are resigned to the fact that they will be here through
Monday,'' said Therese Theroux, administrator at Springfield
Municipal Hospital, where 170 people, including 120 nursing-home
residents, slept on cots. ``It's obvious they are very distraught
and anxious over this entire thing.''
   An elementary school, a high school, two housing projects for
the elderly and the nursing home remained off limits, and anyone
entering the neighborhood was subject to arrest, authorities said.
   The fires in this city of 170,000 began Friday morning when rain
blew in a factory window and ignited tablets of a highly
concentrated form of the chloride in a hopper, authorities said.
Chloride in diluted form is used to bleach clothes and release
chlorine to kill germs in swimming pools.
   Firefighters put out the blaze after 1,800 residents were
evacuated, only to have a second fire start that burned through the
night, ousting 6,000 more residents.
   Residents began returning Saturday, but water-soaked barrels of
chloride exploded in midafternoon, throwing two firefighters
against a wall and triggering the evacuation of an estimated 20,000
to 25,000 people within a mile of the plant and several thousand in
Chicopee to the north.
   At one point, flames soared 100 feet in the air, barrels of
pellets exploded at a rate of six a minute and toxic gas drifted
down city streets. Fumes could be smelled in Palmer, 15 miles away.
   The core of the fire was a room containing 600 to 800 barrels,
each filled with 300 pounds of pellets.
   Firefighters, risking re-igniting the pellets, pumped 14,000
pounds of water per minute on the plant in an attempt to turn it
``into a big swimming pool,'' Placanico said.
   ``If allowed to go on, the cloud would have stayed for weeks,''
said Fire Chief Raymond Sullivan.
   Kevin Kennedy, an aide to the mayor, said the disaster would
cost Springfield millions of dollars.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0089 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1237EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u i PM-Nicaragua-Talks     06-20 0277</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Nicaragua-Talks,0288</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Contras Reject Sandinista Proposal For New Talks</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By BRYNA BRENNAN</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>MANAGUA, Nicaragua (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Contra rebels today rejected a
Sandinista government proposal to reopen peace talks and said the
offer was linked to Washington's consideration of military aid for
the rebels.
   ``Every time the Americans talk of military aid, they (the
Sandinistas) talk of negotiation,'' Contra leader Roberto Ferrey
said in a telephone interview from Costa Rica.
   The Reagan administration, which has supported the rebels since
1981, is considering whether to ask Congress for renewed military
aid.
   President Daniel Ortega called on the rebels Sunday to hold a
fifth round of talks before a temporary cease-fire expires at the
end of June. He proposed that the meeting begin June 26.
   The two sides have made little headway since signing an
agreement March 23 to seek a negotiated settlement to the almost
seven-year war.
   The Contra rejection of talks next week did not rule out further
negotiations. All of the meetings have been marked by haggling over
dates and places.
   During the last meeting, the Sandinistas presented their most
liberal proposal.
   Under the plan, the rebels would send up to eight delegates to
take part in internal talks with other political opposition party
members to define such issues as freedom of expression, electoral
laws and the separation of party and state.
   The Contras said the government plan did not assure that the
democratic measures would be enacted.
   They also called for a constituent assembly, a new supreme court
and permission for soldiers to leave military service should they
so desire.
   The rebels also demanded immediate political amnesty for more
than 3,000 prisoners.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0090 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1245EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a PM-CaptiveWomen     06-20 0372</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Captive Women,0381</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Defense Attorney: Heidnik Case `Not A Whodunit'</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By LEE LINDER</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>PHILADELPHIA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Gary Michael Heidnik raped and tortured six
women, killing two of them, but the jury should look beyond those
acts, his attorney said today in opening arguments at Heidnik's
murder trial.
   ``My client is not innocent. We are not relying on that
presumption. He is very, very guilty. This is not a case of
whodunit. This is a case of why it was done,'' A. Charles Peruto
Jr. said. ``He is relying on a defense of mental infirmity. His
criminal acts will show him to be insane.''
   Heidnik, 44, is charged with keeping the women chained in a
basement torture chamber in his Philadelphia home, which officials
say he used as a ``church'' where he installed himself as bishop.
   Assistant District Attorney Charles Gallagher told the jury,
chosen last week in Pittsburgh, that Heidnik ``methodically and
systematically committed repeated sadistic and malicious acts''
against his victims in the basement.
   ``He kept them there chained and repeatedly assaulted them,
repeatedly raped them and eventually killed two of them,''
Gallagher said. ``The evidence will come from the four survivors.
You will see how Heidnik took advantage of underprivileged people.''
   Heidnik is charged with murdering two women _ one by
strangulation while she was hanging chained to a pipe and the other
by electrocution while she was standing in a water-filled pit.
   Peruto has insisted that Heidnik was treated with the chemical
LSD while a hospital patient during Army service in West Germany in
1962, but has been unable to get any records.
   Common Pleas Judge Lynne Abraham warned that without documents,
the alleged evidence on the LSD incident would be excluded from
testimony.
   Peruto said that shortly after the alleged experiments Heidnik
was discharged from the Army and eventually given 100 percent
disability benefits for service-related mental problems.
   Heidnik used some of his disability funds to found a church in
which he proclaimed himself bishop and then allegedly used
contributions to play the stock market, eventually amassing more
than $500,000 before he was arrested in March 1987.
   Jury selection was moved out of Philadelphia because the defense
claimed excessive publicity prevented a fair trial.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0091 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1246EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r p AM-Bush     06-20 0416</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Bush,410</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Bush Honors Drugs Agents Slain in Line of Duty</HEAD>
<HEAD>With AM-Political Rdp, Bjt</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By TOM RAUM</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Vice President George Bush honored three slain
drug agents in a memorial ceremony on Monday and said ``it burns me
up'' that federal drug enforcement officers are given so little
credit by politicians of either party.
   Bush was the featured speaker at a Drug Enforcement
Administration service paying tribute to three officers killed in
the line of duty during the past year: Paul S. Seema and George M.
Montoya of Los Angeles and Arthur L. Cash of Tucson, Ariz.
   The vice president presented the families of the three officers
framed certificates signed by President Reagan and told an audience
of about 150 agency employees, ``We remember their unselfish
behavior and mourn them as heroes.''
   ``I hope what I'm about to say isn't accused of being too
political. But in this political season I hear comments from people
of both parties giving no credit at all to the job the men and
women in this room and across the country are doing,'' Bush said.
``It burns me up. It's not fair. It's not accurate.''
   ``By design, you don't get your pictures in the paper or sit at
the head table at testimonial dinners. But everywhere I've gone in
this country, I take time talking about the contribution you
make,'' Bush said.
   At the same time, Bush said, ``As we honor your fallen
colleagues, I want to challenge you to do even better.''
   The vice president has called for the death penalty for major
drug dealers and for those convicted of drug-related murders.
   ``I really do believe the death penalty is the answer,'' Bush
told the audience, which gave him a standing ovation.
   He repeated his call for ``increasing the certainty and the
severity of punishment.''
   The nearly certain Republican nominee shared the stage with
Attorney General Edwin L. Meese III, who told the DEA employees
that ``the quality of the work you do is virtually unmatched.''
   Meese, whose legal difficulties have at times been a political
embarrassment to the vice president, praised Bush as ``the leader
in the administration...in speaking out on behalf of the
(anti-drug) law enforcement effort.''
   During the brief ceremony, the names of 40 drug enforcement
employees killed since the 1920s were read.
   Montoya and Seema were killed last February while conducting an
undercover investigation in Los Angeles. Cash was killed while
transporting prisoners in Arizona in August 1987.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0092 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1247EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r w AM-MissileInspectors     06-20 0234</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Missile Inspectors,230</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Soviet Advance Team Expected This Week at Utah Missile Site</HEAD>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A Soviet advance team is expected to arrive in
Utah this week to prepare for the July 1 start of inspections at
the gates of a factory that produced missiles to be scrapped under
the Intermediate-range Nuclear Forces Treaty, a U.S. official said
Monday.
   The Soviet Union notified the United States over the weekend
that it might send an advance team of up to five members to Magna,
Utah, site of Hercules Plant No. 1, where INF missiles were
produced, said Kendell Pease, spokesman for the U.S. On-Site
Inspection Agency.
   Under the treaty signed by President Reagan and Soviet leader
Mikhail S. Gorbachev, as many as 30 Soviet inspectors will be
stationed outside the plant over the next 13 years to weigh,
measure and photograph outgoing shipments to verify no INF missiles
are shipped.
   Pease said the advance team could arrive as early as Thursday to
prepare the inspectors' quarters and make sure other living
arrangements are set.
   ``Basically, it would be to make sure there's food in the
refrigerator and things like that,'' Pease said.
   The advance team would not bring any verification equipment,
Pease said.
   Pease said the United States may also exercise its right to send
an advance team for similar start-up purposes to the Soviet missile
producing site, the Votkinsk Machine Building Plant.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0093 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1306EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i AM-Tate     06-20 0250</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Tate,0257</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>American Art Purchase Fund Set Up For Tate Gallery</HEAD>
<DATELINE>LONDON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A British businessman in New York has given $6.5
million to buy American paintings and sculpture for the Tate
Gallery, the state art museum announced Monday.
   The anonymous donation is the second-largest to the Tate after
the $13.6 million given by Britain's Clore Foundation in 1980 to
house the works of J.M.W. Turner.
   The Tate said the gift will be invested to establish an American
Fund for the Tate Gallery and the income from it used for
purchasing.
   ``It's a marvelous gift and we shall be buying modern works,''
said Sir Alan Bowness, director of the Tate, which houses the
national collection of British art and modern foreign art.
   The Tate owns the most important collection of American 20th
century art of any museum outside the United States. It includes
six paintings by Jackson Pollock, 13 by Mark Rothko and major works
by Willem de Kooning, Barnett Newman, Andy Warhol and Roy
Lichtenstein.
   ``We have a good collection of American abstract expressionism
but we have nothing by Edward Hopper or Georgia O'Keefe, for
instance,'' said Bowness.
   ``The relatively high cost of American art has made it difficult
to continue to add to the collection and with the American Fund we
hope to make at least one major acquisition each year,'' the
director said.
   He said the donor was an art collector who has lived for many
years in New York and wanted to remain anonymous.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0094 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1316EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u i PM-Israel-Explosion 2ndLd-Writethru a0576 06-20 0356</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Israel-Explosion, 2nd Ld - Writethru, a0576,0362</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Precede TEL AVIV</HEAD>
<HEAD>Explosion In Pizzeria Injures 22</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: Updates throughout with 22 injured, quotes and description
from scene. CORRECTS name of town. No pickup.</NOTE>
<DATELINE>HERZLIYA, Israel (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   An explosion in a pizzeria injured 22
Israelis and overturned cars and trucks today in this coastal
resort, hospital officials and witnesses said.
   Police said the blast was caused by a gas leak. They were
investigating whether it was accidental.
   ``Apparently this was not a terrorist act, but one can always
ask why the gas leaked,'' Tel Aviv Police Chief Yigal Marcus said
on Israel army radio. ``Did someone leave the tap open on purpose?
Did someone forget? ... This we can't determine for sure.''
   Police said the gas leaked from 15 canisters stored in the
Rimini Pizzeria, on the ground floor of a three-story building in
Herzliya. The Mediterranean resort is six miles north of Tel Aviv.
   The blast gutted the restaurant, blew away its rear wall and
damaged the second floor, where a home for the elderly is located,
said Associated Press photographer Max Nash.
   Two trucks and at least one car were overturned by the explosion.
   ``We sat down and were served when all of a sudden the whole
building exploded,'' one pizzeria customer, Levy Sudi, told Israel
radio. ``The whole building collapsed on us. Glass, bricks, blocks.
I don't remember what happened afterwards.''
   Herzilia Mayor Eli Landau told the radio: ``Cars are overturned,
metal is ripped. The first and second stories of the building are
completely destroyed.''
   A crane was used to evacuate residents of the retirement home. A
bloodied blanket hung out of one of the shattered second-floor
windows.
   Some of the elderly residents, including a man and a woman with
blood on their arms and legs, appeared to be in shock.
   ``Take it easy, Mummy, take it easy,'' one woman told her
mother, who was walking amid the rubble in a daze.
   One of the injured was in serious condition with a chest injury
and two suffered moderate injuries. The others were slightly
injured, said Dr. Avinoam Eliashiv, a doctor at Meir Hospital.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0095 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1329EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i AM-Israel-ViolentMood     06-20 0698</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Israel-Violent Mood,0716</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Rebellion Creates Climate of Violence As Elections Approach</HEAD>
<HEAD>With AM-Israel Bjt</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By DAN IZENBERG</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>JERUSALEM (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Social scientists say the 6-month-old
Palestinian rebellion in the occupied lands is creating a worrisome
atmosphere of violence and insensitivity in Israel.
   Repeated scenes on television of Palestinians throwing stones
and being beaten by soldiers are contributing to more violence in
labor disputes and demonstrations, according to the scholars and
researchers.
   Early this month, hundreds of protesters stormed past police
guarding the Finance Ministry in Jerusalem, broke open the massive
front door and made frightened office workers sit quietly while
they smashed windows and furniture.
   Police summoned reinforcements and drove the protesters out with
wooden clubs and tear gas. The 500 attackers, Jewish employees of
the Beit Shemesh Engine Factory, wanted the government to bail out
the financially troubled company.
   ``Violence is increasingly becoming the norm,'' said Simcha
Landau, a criminologist at Hebrew University. ``The sensitivity
threshold has been lowered and violence has become a legitimate way
to solve problems.''
   Several days after the Finance Ministry assault, members of the
extreme, anti-Arab Kach Party attacked left-wing demonstrators in
downtown Jerusalem and police were called in to break up the fight.
The party's leader is American-born Rabbi Meir Kahane.
   In Tel Aviv, bystanders spat on people who marched June 4 to
dramatize support for trading the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip
for peace with the Arabs. Several scuffles broke out and police
beat up three news photographers.
   Landau said ``Israelis become habituated and desensitized to the
violence'' they see daily on television and hear about from
thousands of reserve soldiers who have served in the territories
since the violence began Dec. 8. ``The more they see it, the more
they tend to imitate it,'' he said.
   He cited international studies indicating violent crime
increases after wars because people put less value on human life.
Landau said his research in Israel has shown increases in murder
and robbery in times of war or economic hardship.
   ``There is an erosion of the value which negates violence,
collectively and individually,'' he said. ``At times like this,
many people who live on the edge of violence cross the line.''
   More than 200 Palestinians have been killed _ most shot or
beaten to death by soldiers _ in what has come to be called the
intefadeh, the Arabic word for uprising. Four Israelis have been
slain.
   Avi Diskin, a Hebrew University political scientist, says the
uprising is focusing the Nov. 1 parliamentary election on how to
treat the 1.5 million Palestinians in the territories and whether
to trade land for peace.
   ``This year, for the first time, the campaign may be fought over
the genuine national question: Israel's future and permanent
borders,'' he said.
   Many Israelis feel the West Bank and Gaza, captured in the 1967
Middle East war, are part of Israel by biblical tradition. Other
Jewish settlers whose reasons for moving to the occupied lands were
practical rather than political also would be reluctant to give up
their homes.
   On the other side are liberals who fear Israel will lose its
democratic ideals if it continues ruling Palestinians without
giving them equal rights. They also say, however, that giving them
equal rights would threaten Israel's Jewish character.
   The two major political parties _ the right-wing Likud bloc and
the center-left Labor Party _ have opposite views on giving up the
territories.
   Labor, led by Foreign Minister Shimon Peres, supports a partial
withdrawal and has said Israel will have increasing difficulty
controlling the Palestininians if it keeps the territories.
   Likud, led by Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir, opposes giving up
any territory. Shamir says land released by Israel would become a
staging area for attacks by terrorists or even Arab armies.
   Shamir and Peres have been partners and rivals in a tenuous
``national unity'' coalitions since indecisive elections in 1984.
   Diskin said the Palestinian uprising had polarized the views of
Israelis and the violence could prove a potent mixture with
politics.
   ``There may be a lot of incidents in this campaign,'' he said.
``In elections, emotions are much more powerful than reason and the
intefadeh works powerfully on emotions.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0096 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1339EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i PM-Reagan-NewsConference     06-20 0136</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Reagan-News Conference,140</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>With PM-Summit Rdp Bjt</HEAD>
<HEAD>Reagan Schedules News Conference At Conclusion of Summit</HEAD>
<DATELINE>TORONTO (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   President Reagan will hold a news conference
Tuesday after the close of the economic summit of industrialized
nations, his eighth and final meeting with America's chief trading
allies.
   The late-afternoon news conference will follow the reading of
the final summit communique by Canadian Prime Minister Brian
Mulroney, the host of the 14th annual summit of the United States,
Japan, Britain, France, West Germany, Italy and Canada.
   Most, if not all, of the other leaders here also are expected to
hold news conferences Tuesday. The meetings with reporters have
become a tradition of the summit closing in recent years.
   Reagan's last news conference was on June 1 in Moscow following
his summit with Soviet leader Mikhail S. Gorbachev.
 
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0097 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1357EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i AM-China-US     06-20 0452</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-China-US,0471</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Businessmen Participate in Biggest Chinese Trade Conference</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By JIM ABRAMS</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>BEIJING (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   About 1,000 American businessmen Monday attended
the opening session of China's largest trade conference, seeking to
exchange economic know-how with their Chinese counterparts.
   The four-day U.S.-China Joint Session on Industry, Trade and
Economic Development in Beijing's Great Hall of the People includes
1,000 Chinese from 22 provinces, who are looking for U.S. capital
and technology to fuel their drive for economic modernization.
   The Americans are mostly businessmen from small or medium-sized
companies on their first trip to China to meet representatives of
Chinese industries.
   The opening session began with a noisy welcome from a Chinese
children's drum and cymbal band, as well as greetings from
President Reagan, Vice President George Bush and Chinese Premier Li
Peng.
   ``Between our two countries there is enormous potential for
development,'' Li said.
   Reagan, in his message read by U.S. Ambassador Winston Lord,
noted that bilateral trade reached $10.4 billion last year and was
up 19 percent in the first quarter of this year, while U.S.
businessmen had invested $3 billion in China, more than in any
other country except Hong Kong.
   Speakers offered frank criticisms of American and Chinese trade
and economic policies, but agreed that U.S. restrictions on high
technology sales to China are counterproductive.
   The State Department last fall temporarily froze liberalization
of high tech sales to China to protest alleged sales of Chinese
Silkworm missiles to Iran, but lifted the freeze in March.
   Vice Minister Li Lanqing of the Foreign Economic Relations and
Trade Ministry criticized the United States for failing to grant
China the favored-nation trade status, which would curb the
restrictions on high tech sales and ease other trade barriers.
   These, he said, damage ``U.S. businessmen's interests and
competitiveness in China.''
   ``Under current procedures, the State Department uses trade
restrictions to advance diplomatic interests or to express its
frustrations with the behavior of other nations,'' said Roger
Sullivan, chairman of the National Council for U.S.-China Trade.
   Former U.S. Chamber of Commerce Chairman Edwin D. Dodd said
China needs to emulate Asian countries like Singapore and South
Korea by promoting private enterprise.
   But Sullivan advised China to develop its domestic economy
rather than copying the Singapore or Hong Kong model of
export-oriented growth, which is dependent on cheap labor and
protectionism.
   Liu Hongru, deputy governor of the central People's Bank of
China, admitted that China's financial system remains plagued by
inefficient use of funds, badly trained staff and rigid currency
exchange controls.
   Chinese law expert Jerome Cohen said there are still ``frequent
overlaps and even contradictions between national and local
legislation'' and that China still lacks copyright, mortgage,
insurance, banking and other laws.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0098 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1330EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u i AM-Summit-Puzzle Bjt   06-20 0613</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Summit-Puzzle, Bjt,620</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Briefings Provide the Pieces, But in a Jumble</HEAD>
<HEAD>An AP News Analysis</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By CHARLES CAMPBELL</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>TORONTO (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Although the leaders of the world's most powerful
democracies meet in a summit cocoon of strict privacy, their
statements and the gist of negotiations are relayed in a
near-torrent of briefings by official spokesmen and senior advisers.
   But the picture that emerges can be as hard to fit together as a
pile of jumbled jigsaw pieces. Sometimes it's hard to believe that
all the briefers were even describing the same puzzle.
   Part of the problem is that the officials with the job of
carrying the news to some 3,000 anxious journalists are working
with second-hand information themselves. With rare exceptions, they
were not present at the discussions. The briefers had to be briefed
themselves.
   Then there's the impulse by each country to emphasize its own
role, interpret developments from its point of view _ impart what
is known as its ``spin'' on the news.
   This suits the reporters, as well, who naturally want to focus
on the performance of their own country's leaders in the world
arena.
   The official declarations of the leaders of the seven
industrialized democracies are issued as carefully prepared
communiques, after every word has been weighed.
   But there also are more than 20 briefings each day, from early
in the morning until past midnight.
   With the exception of Japan, which conducts separate briefings
in Japanese and English, each delegation reports exclusively in its
own language _ or in the case of bilingual Canada, two languages _
without simultanous translation.
   To be sure of getting every point of view, a reporter would have
to be fluent in five languages _ and capable of being in several
places at once.
   Instead, news organizations cover as many briefings as they can,
and struggle to resolve the apparent contradictions that come up.
   One key issue at the Toronto summit is what to do about the debt
load on the world's poorest nations. Each participating country has
its own ideas, and several are eager to be seen as the one which
showed the way.
   After Monday's opening summit session, the British delegation
announced that agreement had been reached on how to deal with the
Third World debt, in an accord based on Britain's proposals.
   French officials have been pushing President Francois
Mitterrand's proposal on the debt crisis _ similar in many ways to
Britain's _ and they said Sunday and again Monday that the
agreement was not yet final.
   ``Nothing is settled before the final communique,'' a Mitterrand
aide told a briefing.
   President Reagan's spokesman, Marlin Fitzwater, left the
impression at his briefing Sunday that the debt question had
scarcely been raised.
   The Canadians, meanwhile, who like to think they have a genius
for bringing about compromise, said Monday that they were working
actively to bring the different positions together.
   One delegation official, speaking on condition of anonymity
about the apparent conflicts, said there was rarely any intention
to distort the issues.
   ``We will see consensus on debt, but each country will perceive
the discussions in a selective way _ not negatively, in a humanly
selective way,'' the official said.
   Paul Frazer, spokesman for Canadian Foreign Minister Joe Clark,
said an accurate briefing is a difficult art, in part because
reporters ``would like an impression, they'd like an assessment,''
rather than a dry recitation of events.
   ``One of the toughest things to do in giving a briefing is to
stick to the facts,'' he said.
</TEXT>
<HEAD>___</HEAD>
<NOTE>EDITOR'S NOTE </NOTE>
<TEXT>
   Charles Campbell, the news editor in the
Associated Press' Paris bureau, is on assignment in Toronto
covering the economic summit.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0099 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1339EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u i AM-Summit-Notebook Bjt   06-20 0472</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Summit-Notebook, Bjt,500</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>First Names, Civilized Americans, Souvenir Pins and Other Summit
Tidbits</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By CAROLE FELDMAN</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>TORONTO (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Just call him Ron.
   President Reagan invoked an air of informality at his first
summit seven years ago, and is trying to keep it up at his last.
   At the outset of the Toronto meeting, Reagan told the newcomers,
Prime Ministers Noboru Takeshita of Japan and Ciriaco De Mita of
Italy, that the leaders were on a first-name basis.
   ``My name is Ron,'' White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater
quoted the president as saying.
   Fitzwater didn't say whether they took him up on it.
</TEXT>
<HEAD>___</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   Many of the eight delegations to the economic summit held
late-night briefings for the media that stretched into the early
hours Monday _ but not the United States.
   Fitzwater was asked why he wasn't following the lead set by the
French, who conducted a briefing at 1 a.m.
   ``We're so civilized in the United States,'' he said.
</TEXT>
<HEAD>___</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   The 14th annual economic meeting among the industrialized
democracies might be remembered as the summit of pins.
   There were circle pins and triangle pins, rectangular pins and
freeform pins promoting the summit and various products and locales.
   When supplies dried up, metropolitan Toronto was quick to take
action.
   A ``Pin-Free Zone'' was established in the city's tent in Summit
Square, the watering hole for delegates and journalists.
   But by Monday morning the pin supply had been replenished, and
the pin-free zone lifted.
</TEXT>
<HEAD>___</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   Economic summitry can't interfere with true love.
   Summit organizers had tried to postpone a wedding at the
exclusive Hunt Club, also the site of the leaders' first dinner.
But club officials turned them down flat.
   ``We would certainly have been upset'' had the reception been
postponed, the father of the bride, Logan Brown, told the Toronto
Star.
   The wedding between his daughter, Sandra, and Roman Bandi went
off as scheduled Saturday.
   And the leaders dined the next night.
</TEXT>
<HEAD>___</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   Security is so tight at the economic summit that even the food
undergoes scrutiny.
   Mary D'Alton, project coordinator of Kitchener Caterers, said,
``The security level is much, much higher (than previous catered
gatherings). It adds an extra concern.''
   ``Everything is swept by security, everything, everything,'' she
said, referring to the metal-detecting wands wielded by security
agents.
</TEXT>
<HEAD>___</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   Speaking of food, summit organizers hoped to donate Summit
Square leftovers to the city's poor and homeless _ if the 3,000
journalists and 1,500 delegates didn't consume it all first.
   There was nothing left Saturday and Sunday.
   Barb Richardson, dispatcher for Second Harvest, said Monday that
she hoped the glutonous appetites would ease during the final two
days of the summit.
   She said the group, which distributes food to various
organizations assisting the poor and homeless, wasn't picky. ``As
long as its edible, we'll take it,'' she said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0100 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 2119EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>d a AM-BRF-O'NeillHouse     06-20 0089</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-BRF-O'Neill House,0090</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Playwright Eugene O'Neill's Home Gets Stay From Wrecker's Ball</HEAD>
<DATELINE>HARTFORD, Conn. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The New London house where Eugene O'Neill
wrote his first plays has been temporarily saved from the wrecker's
ball, Attorney General Joseph I. Lieberman said Monday.
   Lieberman said his office won an order from New London Superior
Court late Thursday blocking demolition at least until a June 27
hearing.
   ``This building has architectural value on its own, but is even
more significant because of its historic connection with Eugene
O'Neill,'' Lieberman said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0101 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1346EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u a AM-DroughtDreams Bjt   06-20 0656</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Drought Dreams, Bjt,0675</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Tennessee Farmer's Dreams Ruined by Drought</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: This is one in an ongoing series of stories about the effects
of the 1988 drought on the nation.</NOTE>
<HEAD>LaserPhoto upcoming</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By STRAT DOUTHAT</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>MARYVILLE, Tenn. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Jack Clemmer has begun dreaming that his
drought-stricken fields are being drenched by a soft, gentle rain.
But this happy reverie turns to dust each morning, when the sun
comes streaming over the nearby Smoky Mountains.
   ``What I see when I look out my window in the morning makes me
sick to my stomach,'' says the 50-year-old Clemmer, who has been
raising cattle and crops in Blount County for the past quarter
century.
   What he sees is a rolling expanse of wilted, yellowish grass
that has been cropped to the nub by hungry cattle.
   And, lately, Clemmer has been seeing something else happening in
those seared fields, something he can hardly believe.
   ``Just look out there,'' he said Sunday afternoon while he and
some neighbors sat in the shade. ``It looks like a winter sight,
don't it? Here it is June and I'm feeding hay to my cattle.''
   Out in the field about 30 cows and calves were gathered around a
roll of hay that Clemmer had put out that morning.
   ``I've been putting out hay for two weeks now because there's
simply no grass left in my fields,'' he said. ``If this was a
normal year I wouldn't have to put out any hay until Thanksgiving,
and maybe even a little later than that.''
   But this is hardly a normal year in eastern Tennessee, one of
the hardest-hit drought areas in the Southeast.
   ``Our rainfall level for the year already is 10 inches below
average,'' said Ralph Lovely, the University of Tennessee
Agricultural Extension Service agent in Blount County, just east of
Knoxville.
   Lovely added, ``This drought cycle is killing us. We're down 40
inches over the past four years; that's a year's rainfall we've
lost.''
   As a result, he said, trees are dying and hay and row crops,
such as corn and soybeans, are withering. He predicted many
cattlemen in the county, one of the state's biggest
cattle-producing areas, will be forced to dump their herds this
fall for lack of feed.
   Clemmer said he probably will be among them.
   ``At the rate I'm going I won't have any hay left for winter,''
he said. ``By fall, the price of hay will be out of sight; besides,
nobody can afford hay and feed on a year-round basis.''
   Adding to his problems, he said, is the fact that the yield of
his first hay crop, which he cut two weeks ago, was more than 50
percent below normal.
   ``And, on top of that, I've got 75 acres in corn that isn't
going to make it, either, unless we get a lot of rain the next two
weeks,'' he said. ``I've already decided not to plant soy beans
this year. It would just be a waste of time and money.''
   Clemmer said money has become a major concern while he has
watched his crops dry up along with his dreams.
   ``This is the fourth straight year of bad drought for us here in
eastern Tennessee,'' he said. ``We didn't get any snow to speak of
last winter and we haven't had any rain to speak of this spring.
   ``Each year I've said one more bad year would be all I could
take and it looks like this will be the one that does me in.''
   About that time a neighbor stopped by to tell him about a
thunderstorm that left water standing in the fields and ditches
several miles down the road. He invited Clemmer to come and take a
look.
   ``No,'' Clemmer said, shaking his head. ``I couldn't stand to
look. It would just make me sick.''
</TEXT>
<NOTE>EDITOR'S NOTE </NOTE>
<TEXT>
   Strat Douthat is the AP Southeast regional
reporter, based in Atlanta.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0102 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1350EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u a PM-DroughtRdp 2ndLd-Writethru a0590 06-20 0746</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Drought Rdp, 2nd Ld - Writethru, a0590,0761</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Barges Resume River Runs As Congressmen Examine Drought Damage</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: Leads with 4 grafs to UPDATE with Mississippi blocked again;
picks up 3rd graf pvs, `Showers and...' Deletes grafs 8-9, `The
last...,' now outdated.</NOTE>
<HEAD>LaserPhoto TO1</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By BART ZIEGLER</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<TEXT>
   Barge traffic halted again today on the Mississippi River, just
a day after hundreds of barges resumed travel along the
drought-shrunken Mississippi and Ohio rivers, and a Sioux medicine
man sought heaven's help to end the long dry spell.
   Shallow water near Gunnison, Miss., today choked off traffic on
the Mississippi, when a tow went aground, said Michael Logue, a
spokesman for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers at Vicksburg.
``Nothing's getting through there at this point.''
   Sixteen tows were blocked, including several towing barges freed
earlier 50 miles south, near Greenville, Logue said. It will take
two or three days to free them, he said.
   At Greenville, about 1,800 barges had been stalled last week
while a corps dredge dug out a 15-foot-deep, 300-foot-wide channel.
At one point, 80 tows with 20 to 30 barges each were stalled in the
channel, which had fallen to nine feet deep.
   Showers and thunderstorms Sunday dampened many parts of
America's parched midsection, including Michigan, Wisconsin, Iowa,
Kansas and Nebraska, but provided little relief, the National
Weather Service said.
   Hot weather aggravated the drought, with temperatures of 100
degrees and up recorded as far north as Minnesota. Today's forecast
was no better: continued hot, dry weather over the Midwest and
Plains.
   Two counties of dry eastern North Dakota got up to an inch of
rain during the weekend, but it came with hail as big as baseballs
and 70 mph wind that flattened crops.
   Sections of the Mississippi and Ohio had been closed for days so
dredges could deepen channels made shallow by the drought, backing
up nearly 700 barges on the Ohio.
   River traffic flowed most of Sunday, but was shut down for the
night at one dangerous point on the Mississippi nine miles north of
Memphis, Tenn., said Bill Schult, an Army Corps of Engineers
spokesman.
   On the Ohio, 24 tows were able to pass downstream after the
channel at Mound City, Ill., reopened Sunday afternoon, said Coast
Guard Ensign Rick Johnson.
   By sundown, 70 tows were waiting to head upstream or downstream,
Johnson said.
   Sunday's rainfall amounted to two-thirds of an inch or less, the
weather service said.
   ``We got a half-inch,'' Doris Fruend said Sunday from the farm
she and her husband, Lester, operate east of Merrill, Wis. ``Well,
the corn, it still curled _ but it kept it alive.''
   Even had hard rain fallen, much of it would have rolled off
because the ground is too dry, said weather service meteorologist
Rainer Dombrowsky. Farmers need 24 to 36 hours of light rain, he
said.
   Six U.S. senators and two congressmen toured acre after acre of
bone-dry farms during the weekend. In Menoken, N.D., Sen. Patrick
Leahy, D-Vt., told farmers he would work on legislation to
guarantee crop deficiency payments to drought-stricken farmers.
   ``When I walk out in a field and the greatest source of protein
is grasshoppers, we've got a problem,'' Leahy, chairman of the
Senate's Agriculture Committee, said Saturday.
   North Dakota is suffering the most, and is expected to lose 40
percent of its farm income, according to the U.S. Agriculture
Department.
   Federal officials warned that the drought poses another danger:
increased pollution in the nation's rivers, lakes and wells.
   The millions of streams and rivers that carry off sewage,
industrial wastes, agricultural chemicals and other toxins will
have higher concentrations of the pollutants due to low water
levels, said Ben Jones, assistant regional hydrologist for the U.S.
Geological Survey in Menlo Park, Calif.
   In Clyde, Ohio, Sioux Indian Chief Leonard Crow Dog pointed a
peace pipe and blew an eagle-bone whistle toward the four compass
points in a ceremony he says has never failed to produce rain.
   ``Four days from now, there's going to be thundering, lightning,
rain,'' Crow Dog promised after Sunday's 30-minute ritual that
attracted 4,000 spectators in the parched northern Ohio town east
of Toledo. Early today, thunderstorms brought heavy rain to extreme
northwestern Ohio, far from Clyde's parched fields.
   In Chillicothe, Mo., people danced and children called for
clouds to appear from the skies at the First Great Chillicothe Rain
Dance and Fest. In Jackson, Miss., State Agriculture Commissioner
Jim Buck led a prayer ceremony for rain.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0103 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1431EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r w AM-Nicaragua-Rights     06-20 0361</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Nicaragua-Rights,350</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Sandinistas Already Undoing Limited Civil Liberties Gains, Group
Charges</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By JIM DRINKARD</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A Nicaraguan human rights group charged Monday
that the Sandinista government has used limited improvements in
civil liberties to gain favorable international publicity, then has
quickly reimposed past repression.
   The result is that more than 10 months after a regional peace
accord was reached at Esquipulas, Guatemala, there has been little
or no progress toward realizing promised democratic reforms, said
the Nicaraguan Permanent Commission on Human Rights, an opposition
group.
   Commission Director Lino Hernandez said the Sandinista
government has made some concessions that seemed positive at the
time but which have been undone by subsequent actions and
ultimately appear to have been used only to project a benign image
to the world.
   ``The spaces that had opened under Esquipulas are being closed
once again in Nicaragua,'' Hernandez said at a news conference.
   The freeing of political prisoners and lifting of a state of
emergency by the leftist Managua government have been
counterbalanced by laws that violate human rights, the harassment
of labor unions and the use of government-inspired mobs to
intimidate opposition politicians, the group said.
   The positive steps taken early in the peace process ``in the
long run ... have turned out to be completely insufficient even to
create the proper climate for beginning a national reconciliation''
called for in the accords, the commission said in a report.
   The report specifically cited instances in which opposition
radio stations had been censored and newsprint rationed to the
opposition newspaper La Prensa. A 1981 decree is being newly
enforced to prevent publication of information about military
actions or about the prices of food and other consumer goods, it
said.
   A broadcaster who frequently lampoons the Sandinista government
and is also a member of the commission, Jose Castillo, was
physically assaulted by Interior Minister Tomas Borge in April
after being summoned to Borge's house, the report stated.
   The Sandinista military continues to forcibly conscript young
men and the regime continues to hold some 8,200 political
prisoners, the group charged. Political arrests continue at a rate
of about 50 per month, Hernandez said.
  
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0104 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1433EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a AM-People     06-20 1008</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-People,1044</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>People In The News</HEAD>
<HEAD>LaserPhoto NY44</HEAD>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Something apparently tickled Madonna's funny
bone as she read on stage from a book about radiation and the end
of the world.
   Theatergoers watching David Mamet's hit Broadway play ``Speed
the Plow'' on Saturday night all had one question during
intermission: was the rock star's strange outburst of laughter part
of the play? Or was it an unscheduled case of the giggles?
   The latter, it turns out.
   ``It certainly isn't in the script,'' confirmed ``Speed the
Plow'' spokesman Bruce Campbell on Monday. The play opened to rave
notices on May 3, though the critics were not all kind to Madonna
who was making her Broadway debut.
   The embarrassing moment came toward the end of the first act as
Madonna, who plays a secretary to a Hollywood wheeler-dealer, tries
to persuade her boss that a book about radiation and the end of the
world would make a good film. Her boss, played by Joe Mantegna,
wants mainly to get her in bed.
   As Madonna started reading excerpts from the book she began to
giggle. She laughed for several minutes as the audience at the
Royale Theatre buzzed uncomfortably. Mantegna, seated next to her
on a couch, never took his eyes off her, cradling his chin in his
hands with a bemused expression.
   Regaining control at last, she said, ``I was saying...'' and
picked up where she left off.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Joey Lawrence, at 12 already a star for five
years on the television show ``Gimme A Break,'' will become the
Arthritis Foundation's ``Ambassador for Youth'' to help juvenile
arthritis sufferers.
   Lawrence will make special appearances, tape public service
announcements and generally focus attention on and raise funds for
research and education about arthritis, foundation officials said
in a statement released Monday.
   ``The Ambassador for Youth is a special responsibility that
calls for a sensitive person,'' said Arthritis Foundation
Chairwoman Betsy Brewster Case. ``Joey's abilities and popularity
with other children make him an excellent choice as our main
spokesperson for children.''
   The foundation estimates that about 165,000 children in the
United States suffer from arthritis-related diseases.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>JOHANNESBURG, South Africa (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   An improper traffic turn led
to handcuffs and jail for Anglican Archbishop Desmond Tutu's wife,
Leah, who paid a fine Monday to get rid of the traffic offense.
   But Tutu, winner of the 1984 Nobel Peace Prize for his
campaigning against racial segregation, or apartheid, in South
Africa has complained about the treatment of his wife and indicated
he might pursue legal action.
   The fines, totalling $40 dollars, followed Mrs. Tutu's arrest on
June 10 by a traffic officer who handcuffed her.
   She was briefly held in a police cell, then released on bail
pending the magistrate's court hearing Monday. She was fined for
making an improper turn and failing to make an initial court
appearance in the case.
   Johannesburg municipal officials conducted an inquiry into the
incident while the Tutus were visiting the Soviet Union last week
and exonerated the police without hearing Mrs. Tutu's version of
the matter.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>OMAHA, Neb. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Dick Cavett declined to try the parallel bars
saying he hadn't worn his gym shorts, but the television talk-show
personality otherwise did his bit to honor an alma mater
celebrating its 100th year.
   Cavett spoke for about an hour Saturday to 350 people at a
banquet in Sokol Hall, a South Omaha private school for gymnasts.
Cavett, who was a Nebraska high school champion in gymnastics, used
the hall for workouts.
   ``We tried to get him (Cavett) to do something on the parallel
bars, but he declined because he didn't have shorts, or something
like that,'' said Frank Felner, the hall's assistant manager.
   Cavett also took questions from the audience and kept them
laughing. When asked, ``Will you comment on your high school love
life?'' Cavett shot back, ``Why? Is she here?''
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>BEANBLOSSOM, Ind. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The sweet mountain songs that echoed
through the trees and across the nearby blue hills sounded for the
final time when Bill Monroe fiddled his last tune at his annual
Beanblossom Bluegrass Festival.
   There was sadness and some disbelief among fans who attended the
final performances in southern Indiana during the weekend.
   ``You wouldn't believe the party that went on,'' said ticket
taker Debbie Guffey over the weekend. ``But today everybody looks
kinda hangdog and sad. I guess it's all over.''
   Monroe has packed his goodtime music after 22 years for a move
to Nashville where he'll open a restaurant with his son.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>LOS ANGELES (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   If he had it to do over, actor-activist
Martin Sheen says he would have trained for his career.
   ``I wanted to study (when he arrived in New York), but I
couldn't afford it,'' he said during a recent trip to Los Angeles
to promote his latest movie ``Da.''
   ``When I began to make my living (as an actor), I didn't feel
any great need for it. I figured that the only thing I would play
would be a human and I felt my classroom was in the streets. I'm
instinctual, but I don't think you can teach anyone to be a good
actor.
   ``The area of study I think is critical is on the body: You
should study dance and you have to be healthy. Also, you have to
know classical literature. If I had to do it again, that's what I'd
study,'' he said.
   Sheen, 48, is ardent in his work for the Roman Catholic Church
and his quest for world peace has made him a willing protester.
   ``I generally don't have a preconceived notion of a character
until I'm playing it,'' Sheen said. ``It means you're open to
changes in the character. I do surrender to the moment _ go with
instinct _ but it also means I might be shooting for several weeks
before I finally figure out the part.''
   `Da,'' based on the 1977 Tony Award winning play, deals with the
relationship between an Irish father and his son.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0105 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1442EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i AM-BRF--Bangladesh-Attack     06-20 0202</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-BRF--Bangladesh-Attack,0209</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Students Attack Prime Minister's Wife</HEAD>
<DATELINE>DHAKA, Bangladesh (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The wife of Prime Minister Maudud Ahmed
was attacked by anti-government students Monday and her car was set
ablaze, but she was not injured, witnesses said.
   Hasna Maudud had her sari torn in the scuffle, the witnesses
said.
   Mrs. Maudud, a Parliament member of the ruling Jatiya Party, was
attacked inside the Dhaka University campus when she went to attend
the annual meeting of the university senate as a government nominee.
   The students set her car ablaze and beat up her chauffeur. A
security guard also was attacked by the students when he tried to
protect Mrs. Maudud, according to the witnesses, who spoke on
condition of anonymity.
   ``We did not know that the prime minister's wife was coming to
attend the meeting. We were not informed or we would have taken
precautionary measures,'' said Mustafizur Rahman, a senior
professor at the university.
   An hour after the attack, about 50 students marched on campus,
shouting anti-government slogans. Two homemade bombs exploded as
they passed the vice-chancellor's office, but no one was injured,
witnesses said.
   Dhaka University is a major center of opposition to the
government of President Hussain Muhammad Ershad.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0106 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1443EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r p AM-Kemp-Veep     06-20 0790</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Kemp-Veep,780</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Kemp Seen as Long Shot fo, even though some political oddsmakers
put his chances at slim</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   to none.
   Kemp himself says he doesn't believe George Bush will give him a
crack at the job, although he also says he believes he'd be a good
vice president.
   And if he were offered the slot, the timing would be perfect
since Kemp isn't running for the Buffalo, N.Y.-area seat he has
held for nine terms.
   ``There's no way you can campaign for it, there's no way you can
expect something like that,'' said Kemp in an interview about the
vice presidency.
   But, if it were offered, he said, ``I would be flattered.''
   An early entrant into the 1988 GOP presidential contest, Kemp
dropped out in March after failing to win better than 13 percent in
any of the initial GOP primaries. Despite his perceived role as a
leader of the New Right and his claim to be heir to the Reagan
revolution, Kemp never moved out of the single digits in
presidential polls.
   Within weeks of quitting the race, he endorsed Bush as ``a
rising star in the Republican Party'' and promised to campaign
vigorously for him.
   Asked why he seems so convinced Bush has ruled him out as a
running mate, Kemp said, ``I'm not the governor of the state. I
like to think I'm a pretty good campaigner but I cannot command any
vast constituency.''
   He also said he may be perceived as having his own political
agenda.
   ``I think I've proven I could be a good team player but it may
be that some think that I am too much of an activist,'' he said.
   Kemp, 52, a former pro football quarterback, made his first mark
in national politics when he sold President Reagan on the idea of
supply-side economics. His belief that government should tax its
citizens less, spurring them to work, save and invest more, has
been credited both with the economic recovery of 1982-87 and the
country's huge federal deficit. His call for cutting taxes 10
percent a year for three years was adopted in modified form by
Congress in 1981, and he was one of the politicians who introduced
the Tax Reform Act of 1986.
   Asked what assets Kemp could bring to the Bush ticket, several
veteran political observers mentioned youth, energy and the
conservative vote. At the same time, however, they spoke of Kemp's
failure to ignite his own presidential campaign, and the
probability that the New York congressman would not be able to
deliver the vote in his adopted home state, where the native
Californian has traditionally been viewed as something of a
carpetbagger.
   ``I've got to believe Jack Kemp will be on any reasonably short
list George Bush puts together,'' said GOP consultant Eddie Mahe.
   ``The only thing clearly missing with Jack Kemp _ that keeps him
in my opinion from being almost the automatic choice _ is you
cannot make the assumption that he would bring New York state,''
Mahe said. ``If you could make that assumption then I don't think
there'd be any doubt.''
   Kemp said he doesn't believe any potential vice presidential
candidate can promise to deliver any state. But in the next breath,
he named two exceptions: Democratic Sen. Sam Nunn could carry his
home state of Georgia and Republican Gov. Tom Kean could deliver
his New Jersey constituents.
   ``I think I could certainly compete very favorably for that
blue-collar vote that I consider to be necessary to the Republican
Party and I also consider minority votes to be important to the
Republican Party,'' Kemp said.
   ``So what I don't bring in terms of maybe the state of New York
or the whole Northeast, I think I could bring something else.''
   Thomas Mann, a scholar at the Brookings Institution, a
liberal-oriented Washington think tank, said he thinks Kemp has a
chance.
   ``If the feeling was that Bush really needed help giving energy
to the movement conservatives, then Kemp is a reasonable choice,''
Mann said. ``But I have a feeling that if, at the time he has to
make this appointment, he's 15 points behind _ which is a
reasonable supposition _ that he's going to be thinking more about
going after Democrats than he is about firming up his conservative
base.''
   Ben J. Wattenberg, a fellow at the more conservative American
Enterprise Institute, said he thinks Kemp would be a good choice
because he has ``a sense of energy and youth and, to use a
much-overworked term, charisma.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0107 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1447EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a AM-BoldingTrial     06-20 0605</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Bolding Trial,590</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Maryland Nurse Acquitted of Killing Three Patients</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By RICHARD KEIL</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>UPPER MARLBORO, Md. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A judge on Monday acquitted a nurse
accused of killing three of her patients with lethal doses of
potassium chloride, saying prosecutors failed to tie her to the
deaths.
   ``The state's reach hopelessly exceeded its grasp,'' Prince
George's County Circuit Court Judge Joseph S. Casula said in
dismissing the case. ``Simply put, the evidence failed to supply
the missing link that would connect the defendant with alleged
criminal acts.''
   Jane Bolding, 30, who claimed she had been forced into
confessing to killing two of the patients during a marathon
interrogation, faced three counts of first-degree murder in
connection with the deaths of three patients at the Prince George's
Hospital Center, located about 30 miles from Washington, D.C. She
also was charged with trying to kill two others the same way.
   ``I said three and a half years ago that I was innocent,''
Bolding said after Casula issued his decision in the non-jury
trial. ``It's been proven now.''
   Bolding, who now works filing medical records, did not say when
or if she would resume her nursing career.
   ``She can't go to a nurses' station and say, `Please restore my
reputation,''' defense attorney Fred Joseph said. ``That's going to
take a long time.''
   ``I'm very disappointed in the outcome,'' Assistant State's
Attorney Jay Creech said. ``I feel that the evidence I presented
was strong and compelling.''
   During the month-long proceedings, no witness testified to
seeing Bolding give the patients unauthorized injections, and no
causes of death ever were established, although post-mortem
examinations revealed all three had high levels of potassium.
   Creech based his case on a study by the federal Centers for
Disease Control that revealed that patients in the hospital's
intensive care unit suffered an unusually high number of heart
attacks while Bolding was working.
   According to the study, Bolding was the primary care nurse when
57 heart attacks occurred. The next-highest number for any nurse
was five.
   Dr. Jeffrey J. Sacks, the author of the study, testified that 88
heart attacks occurred while Bolding was on duty from January 1984
to March 1985, the period covered by the study.
   Health statistics projected that just 31 heart attacks should
have taken place during that time, and Sacks estimated that the
odds of Bolding not being in some way connected with the rash of
heart attacks were about one in 100 trillion.
   However, under cross-examination, Sacks also testified that his
statistical findings could not be used to address the matter of
intent to commit a crime.
   In the absence of a witness to the alleged crimes, Casula ruled
that he could not give undue weight to the CDC study.
   ``A conviction cannot rest soley on a statistical study,'' said
Casula, who added that a guilty verdict under such circumstances
would turn courtrooms across the country into ``mathematical
quagmires.''
   Bolding became the subject of an investigation in 1985 after
hospital officials became suspicious of the high number of heart
attacks on her shift. She signed a letter of confession to two of
the killings later that year.
   However, the statement was ruled inadmissible as evidence after
revelations that it came in the midst of 33 straight hours of
interrogation in which she was denied access to an attorney.
   Murder charges then were dismissed, but reinstated after a grand
jury heard testimony on the CDC study.
   Two medical experts testified they were certain outside
injections of the electrolyte had caused heart attacks in several
victims, but other experts said numerous medical occurrences can
cause high potassium levels.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0108 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 2119EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>d a AM-BRF--NorCalQuake     06-20 0156</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-BRF--NorCal Quake,0160</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Police Report 4-Second Temblor From Calaveras Fault Movement</HEAD>
<DATELINE>MORGAN HILL, Calif. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A moderate earthquake jostled
communities in the southern San Francisco Bay area on Monday, eight
days after a much stronger shaker struck in the same fault zone.
   No damage or injury was reported from the latest quake.
   The new quake, generated by the Calaveras Fault, set the ground
quivering at 8:26 a.m., with an epicenter seven miles east of
Morgan Hill and a Richter scale reading up to 4.0.
   ``It was a good one,'' said Morgan Hill police dispatcher Nancy
True. ``We felt it for about four seconds, but we didn't get a
single (telephone) call,'' or any reports of damage.
   ``We never felt a thing,'' said Gilroy police dispatcher Manuel
Texeira, 10 miles to the south. ``And the only calls we've gotten
have been from reporters.''
   A quake of 4.0 on the Richter scale can cause moderate damage.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0109 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1448EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i AM-Summit-Thatcher     06-20 0543</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Summit-Thatcher,550</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>With AM-Summit Rdp Bjt</HEAD>
<HEAD>Thatcher Shifts Into Key Role: This Time No One Seems To Mind</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By MAUREEN JOHNSON</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>TORONTO (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   America is the most powerful participant and
Canada is the host, but it is British Prime Minister Margaret
Thatcher who has subtly taken over a key role at the seven-nation
economic summit.
   Often resented and sometimes ostracized at other international
gatherings, Mrs. Thatcher appears to have moved to center stage
this time with scant sign of demurral from her fellow leaders of
the world's major industrialized countries.
   Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney invited the 62-year-old
British prime minister, now the longest serving leader in the
Western world, to make the opening address and set the tone on
economic issues for the three-day gathering.
   Canadian officials said the invitation reflected Mrs. Thatcher's
seniority at the gathering of the United States, Canada, Britain,
West Germany, Italy, France and Japan.
   In office for nine years, she has held power longer than
President Reagan, nearing the end of his second and final four-year
term.
   Reagan, to whom Mrs. Thatcher has been the closest and most
loyal foreign ally, has always sought to bolster her international
prestige. Last December, Soviet leader Mikhail S. Gorbachev also
increased her standing by conferring with her en route to a
superpower summit meeting in Washington.
   But at meetings of the 12-nation European Economic Community,
France _ Britain's longtime rival _ has openly resented and sought
to block Mrs. Thatcher's moves to dominate or get her way.
   In contrast, Britain and France are allied at the Toronto
meetings in pressing a less enthusiastic U.S. delegation to agree
to substantive debt relief measures for the poorest African nations.
   Some analysts believe Mulroney's deference toward Mrs. Thatcher,
a fellow conservative, has been spurred by Canada's elections next
year. The British leader's high profile at the summit provides a
ringing endorsement for Mulroney's conservative cause.
   Mrs. Thatcher lauds free-enterprise policies that she says have
wrought an economic transformation in Britain and account for
steady growth among the summit seven.
   ``That sort of talk fits Mr. Mulroney's agenda perfectly,''
commented Toronto's Globe and Mail newspaper.
   ``Clearly the hope was that she would set the agenda for the
summit,'' a British government spokesman, who insisted on
anonymity, said of Mulroney's invitation to Mrs. Thatcher.
   Canadian delegation spokesman Derek Burney said he thought that
was overplaying things a bit.
   But Thatcher's spokesman saw no conflict, saying Canada invited
Thatcher to set the economic tone, while Reagan set the agenda for
talks on East-West relations. ``This is the greatest non-issue of
the summit ... forget it,'' said the British spokesman.
   The robust response reflected the exuberance and confidence that
the Thatcher government displays at international conferences,
often to the irritation of its allies.
   Yet the briefings by Mrs. Thatcher's blunt-speaking press
secretary, Bernard Ingham, attract the largest numbers of reporters.
   And in the fleeting glimpses that cameramen and reporters get of
the leaders, Mrs. Thatcher rivals Reagan as a favorite target for
cameramen.
   Other differences were sidelined in Toronto, including over
South Africa.
   In the Commonwealth, the 48-nation association of Britain and
its former colonies, Mrs. Thatcher has been isolated because of her
refusal to impose tough embargoes against the white-minority
government.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0110 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1501EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a AM-PigeonPirate     06-20 0501</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Pigeon Pirate,0514</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Poacher Profits from Pigeon Plunder</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By RICK HAMPSON</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   An old man stands in the park, dropping crumbs
on the ground, and appreciative pigeons swoop down to eat. Suddenly
the man claps his hands loudly and pulls out a huge net, trapping a
half-dozen of the birds as they try to fly away.
   He throws them into a box in the back of his tan station wagon
and heads off to New Jersey, where the pirated pigeons will be sold
for a few bucks each.
   That is the modus operandi of a 74-year-old Brooklyn man who
authorities say has been trapping and reselling pigeons for the
past decade.
   Agents of the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
repeatedly have issued him summonses, but judges have thrown out
the charges _ there is no law against trapping wildlife on city
streets, as long as it's done humanely.
   Recently, however, the man has been spotted trapping pigeons in
and around parks, including Riverside Park on Manhattan's upper
West Side. He lures them with bread crumbs, then claps his hands to
scare them, and captures them as they fly into the air.
   A neighborhood resident has posted a sign on a park fence,
urging bystanders to ``call police if you see a man abducting
squirrels and pigeons.''
   Park Department regulations make it a crime to ``molest, chase,
wound, trap, hunt, shoot, throw missiles at, kill, remove or
(possess)'' any bird from a city park.
   William Kapps, director of enforcement for the SPCA, said that
several years ago two society agents trailed the pigeon pirate and
his captives to a poultry market in Newark.
   But the agents, who carry guns, were spotted by Newark police
and asked to leave the jurisdiction.
   Kapps said his agents would work with the Parks Department to
make sure the man was not poaching on public lands.
   How appetizing are these urban birds? Not very, experts say.
   Michael Lane, whose family has run a Manhattan poultry market
for three generations, says pigeons served in good restaurants are
raised on farms, where they live in cages and eat nothing but
grain. They never fly and develop relatively little muscle tissue.
They are young, tender, and cost about $5 each.
   But, ``a bird that's been living in the park tends to get
tough,'' Lane said, ``and you don't know what they've been eating.
I wouldn't eat one of 'em. A park pigeon has been around.''
   He said that although people have been trying to sell captured
city pigeons since his grandfather's time, no one had approached
his poultry business with such an offer for two or three years.
   Oscar Hartman, who runs a poultry distributor in the Bronx, said
that occasionally teen-agers will trap pigeons on rooftops and try
to sell them ``when they need a few bucks.'' But he said he knew of
no one who systematically traffics in the birds, since there is no
legitimate market for them.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0111 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1506EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i AM-Nicaragua     06-20 0461</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Nicaragua,0475</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Contras Reject Sandinista Proposal For New Talks</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By BRYNA BRENNAN</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>MANAGUA, Nicaragua (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Rebel leaders rejected a government
offer to reopen peace talks, contending Monday that the Sandinistas
made it only because new military aid to the insurgents was being
considered in Washington.
   ``Every time the Americans talk of military aid, they (the
Sandinistas) talk of negotiation,'' Roberto Ferrey, a leader of the
U.S.-supported rebels, said in a telephone interview from Costa
Rica.
   President Daniel Ortega said Sunday there should be a fifth
round of talks with the Contra rebels before a cease-fire expires
at the end of June. He suggested the meeting begin next Sunday.
   Sandinista and Contra negotiators have made little headway since
they signed an agreement March 23 to seek a negotiated settlement
to the war, which began nearly seven years ago.
   ``They just want to give the image that negotiations are moving
forward,'' Ferrey said. ``If we continue to arrive in Managua it
would be playing the Sandinista game.''
   Although the Contras rejected the leftist government's latest
proposal, they did not rule out further negotiations. Previous
meetings have been marked by haggling over dates and places.
   Both sides claim violations of the truce declared March 21, two
days before the agreement to negotiate.
   Ferrey said: ``We aren't looking to renew the war, but we will
defend ourselves.''
   The Reagan administration, which has supported the rebels since
they began fighting in 1981, is considering whether to request new
military aid. Congress voted down such a request earlier this year,
and the March 23 agreement permits only humanitarian aid to the
Contras.
   Talks between the leftist Sandinistas and the rebels are at an
impasse over democratic reforms and a timetable.
   At the last three-day meeting, the Sandinistas presented their
most liberal proposal and accepted a rebel demand for democratic
reforms and a schedule for implementing them.
   Under the government plan, rebels would send up to eight
delegates to in internal talks between the government and
opposition political parties intended to define such issues as
freedom of expression, election laws and separation the Sandinista
party and the government.
   Amnesty would be carried out in stages and full disarmament
would be completed by Oct. 10.
   According to the Contras, the government plan did not guarantee
the democratic measures would be enacted. They demanded immediate
amnesty for more than 3,000 prisoners, a constituent assembly to
write a new constitution, a new Supreme Court and permission for
soldiers to leave military service if they wished.
   More than 26,000 Nicaraguans have been killed in the war, which
began two years after the Sandinistas ousted the pro-American
government of President Anastasio Somoza. The war has shattered the
economy and the government says it has cost about $3 billion.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0112 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1516EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a AM-People-BestandWorst     06-20 0406</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-People-Best and Worst,0419</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>TV Guide Votes on 1987-88 Television Season</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: For Release at 6 p.m. EDT; time set by source</NOTE>
<DATELINE>RADNOR, Pa. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The best fight of the television season
pitted CBS News' Dan Rather against Vice President George Bush,
according to TV Guide's latest list of triumphs and travesties of
the 1987-88 TV season.
   Besides the shouting match between Rather and Bush, other ``Best
Bouts'' cited in next week's issue of the magazine are Jimmy
Swaggart vs. Assemblies of God; Geraldo Rivera vs. Charles Manson;
Hulk Hogan vs. Andre the Giant; and writers vs. producers.
   ``Best'' also didn't necessarily mean the shows were renewed,
the editors said.
   ABC's renewed ``thirtysomething'' boasted some of the best
acting on TV and covered subjects ranging from the death of a
parent to life after divorce, the magazine said.
   ``Either you complained about this show's self-indulgent yuppies
or you exclaimed, `Hey, that's us,!''' TV Guide said.
   ``The Slap Maxwell Story'' was chosen the ``Most Fascinating
Mid-Life Crisis.'' Dabney Coleman's multifaceted portrayal of
sportswriter Slap rendered him both appalling and sympathetic,''
the editors said.
   ABC canceled the show.
   The editors gave PBS' ``Masterpiece Theatre'' the ``Most
Misnamed Series'' title. With the exception of ``Sorrell & Son''
and ``David Copperfield,'' it offered mostly mediocrity, TV Guide
said.
   The ``Best Public Service'' award did not go to PBS, the
magazine said. Instead, the award went to Fox television's
``America's Most Wanted,'' because it helped police arrest 16
fugitives.
   Among others:
   ``A Different World'' on NBC got the ``Weak Sister Award'' for
reaping the ratings glory of its lead-in ``The Cosby Show.''
   Picked as the ``Most Positive Trend'' was TV portrayal of the
physically and mentally handicapped, the magazine said, citing
``L.A. Law'' on NBC with Larry Drake's compassionate insight as
retarded office boy Benny Stulwicz.
   The ``Aloha, Already Memorial Lei'' went to Magnum, P.I. on CBS
for hanging around a season too long.
   The magazine awarded another round of drinks to NBC's ``Cheers.''
   And the ``Man for All Seasons'' award went to ABC Sports' Al
Michaels, who handled the World Series, the Super Bowl and Olympic
hockey.
   Among the ``Ins and Outs,'' the magazine said Sandy Duncan is in
and Valerie Harper is out; ``Beauty and the Beast'' is in and David
and Maddie are out; Dan Dierdorf is in and Jimmy the Greek is out;
and Spuds MacKenzie is in and Bruce Willis' Seagram' ads are out.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0113 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1449EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u i PM-Summit-Debt 1stLd-Writethru a0480 06-20 0740</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Summit-Debt, 1st Ld-Writethru, a0480,690</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>World Leaders Reportedly Agree on African Debt Relief</HEAD>
<NOTE>EDs: Inserts new 5th graf, bgng, ``We do xxx etc., to UPDATE with
Lawson quote.</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By SALLY JACOBSEN</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>TORONTO (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   World leaders tentatively agreed to help ease the
staggering foreign debt burdens of Africa's poorest nations by
fashioning measures that would forgive some of those countries'
loans, British officials said.
   The United States backed off from its previous refusal to go
along with debt concessions, helping pave the way for the agreement
at Sunday's opening session of the 14th annual economic summit of
seven key industrial nations.
   ``The Americans have agreed along with everyone else that action
will be taken, which is a position they were very far from even a
few months ago,'' said a British official, who spoke on condition
of anonymity.
   President Reagan joined leaders from Britain, France, West
Germany, Italy, Japan and Canada at the summit, an annual gathering
for discussing primarily international economic issues.
   ``We do have agreement to address it and the broad ways of doing
so for all the summit countries and although, of course, thre are a
lot of important details which will still have to be sorted out
afterward. I think this is the real breakthrough,'' Nigel Lawson,
Britain's top finance official, said in an interview today on the
British Broadcasting Corp.
   During the opening round of talks, French President Francois
Mitterrand made a pitch for debt relief.
   Spokesman Hubert Vedrine quoted him as saying: ``The poverty of
the Third World destroys their societies and threatens ours. We
must do more and coordinate our efforts. Toronto is the occasion to
do it.''
   The plan is aimed at the poorest nations in sub-Saharan Africa,
a vast region of 44 countries sandwiched between North Africa,
which is somewhat better off, and South Africa, which is much more
prosperous.
   The total foreign debt of the developing world is estimated at
roughly $1 trillion.
   Officials said the fresh debt plan would apply primarily to
about 20 African nations, which have a per capita annual income of
$280.
   Under the proposal, Western creditor governments would have a
menu of options for aiding these countries. The options discussed
include writing off some of the loans, slashing interest rates on
the credits or stretching out payments over a longer period of time.
   The British official said aides were working on the language of
the agreement expected to be released at the end of the summit on
Tuesday.
   French officials said nothing was final. ``Nothing is settled
before the final communique is issued,'' said Jacques Attali, a
senior aide to Mitterrand.
   Canada's finance minister, Michael Wilson, told reporters ``the
leaders recognize their joint responsibility with the LDCs (less
developed countries) to find solutions.''
   ``For the poorest countries,'' he said, ``they agreed to focus
on new debt relief options.''
   The push for debt relief would not apply to the developing
world's biggest debtors, Brazil and Mexico, which have rung up
loans totaling $220 billion.
   Officials argue the big debtors, who owe money mainly to
commercial banks, can be helped with additional bank credits and
other international financial aid.
   ``These countries can help themselves, especially if there are
more credits given by commercial banks and ... if (export) markets
are open for them,'' said Willy De Clercq, commissioner for
external affairs of the European Community.
   ``While the poorest, even with all the possible schemes we have
invented up to now, it doesn't seem possible (they can help
themselves),'' De Clercq said. ``For them, certain specific
solutions should be found.''
   The drive to seek debt relief at the summit came primarily in
separate initiatives from Mitterrand and Nigel Lawson, Britain's
top financial official.
   U.S. Treasury Secretary James A. Baker III said earlier this
month in the Ivory Coast that the United States would support
concessions on official debt owed by ``the poorest of the poor''
Third World countries.
   The United States has said it cannot legally write off loans or
grant concessionary interest rates, but can grant extended interest
repayment periods.
   The International Monetary Fund, an international financial
organization, said in a recent publication that during 1980-87,
only a dozen of the sub-Saharan African countries ``were able to
service their debt promptly without obtaining debt relief or
incurring payments arrears.''
   It also said more than half of the sub-Saharan debt is held by
five countries _ the Ivory Coast, Nigeria, Sudan, Zaire and Zambia.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0114 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1517EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i AM-Duarte     06-20 0306</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Duarte,0315</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Son Says Duarte Will Resume Presidency</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By DOUGLAS GRANT MINE</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>SAN SALVADOR, El Salvador (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   President Jose Napoleon Duarte,
who is being treated for terminal cancer in Washington, will return
to El Salvador next month to resume his presidency, his son said
Monday.
   Alejandro Duarte told a news conference his 62-year-old father
``will have to organize his work differently,'' but that
chemotherapy for liver cancer will not keep him from carrying out
his duties.
   ``His intellectual capacity is not affected by the treatment, in
fact it is admirable,'' said the younger Duarte.
   He said his father, one of the United States' closest allies in
Latin America, would return between July 5 and July 8 and that he
would resume the presidency immediately.
   Duarte, whose five-year term ends June 1, 1989, has spent the
past three weeks in Walter Reed Army Medical Center. Most of his
stomach, also affected by cancer, was removed in an operation
earlier this month.
   Duarte said chemotherapy could extend his father's life well
into next year. He said that, according to statistics, the
president could reasonably expect to live between six and 18 months.
   He said Duarte would return to Walter Reed in August, but his
later treatment would be in El Salvador.
   ``My father is a fighter,'' he said, emphasizing that doctors
say a cancer patient's will and morale are a big factor in the
prognosis.
   Duarte will be returning to a difficult political landscape. His
country is mired in an 8-year-old civil war and his Christian
Democratic Party is deeply divided over who will be its
presidential candidate in March elections.
   The rightist opposition party Republican Nationalist Alliance
won legislative elections in March and is considered likely to win
the presidency. Vice President Rodolfo Castillo Claramount is the
acting president in Duarte's absence.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0115 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1522EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a AM-RedSquare     06-20 0437</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Red Square,0447</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Moscow On the Nightclub Circuit</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By RICH CARTIERE</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>SAN FRANCISCO (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Pictures of Stalin, May Day parades in
Moscow and everyday life in the Soviet Union flashed on screens at
the new ``Red Square'' nightclub, touted as a cultural classroom in
disco guise.
   ``We want to make the idea of peace sexy, something people will
want to pursue,'' said Sanford Keller, one of two local nightclub
owners presenting the once-a-week event in a former warehouse that
for years was a dance hall.
   Patrons at Saturday night's opening gala absorbed the cultural
experience, even getting into the spirit by wearing T-shirts with
pictures of the Kremlin emblazoned on them, but most said they were
just looking for a good time.
   ``Hey, with (President) Reagan and (Soviet Union leader Mikhail)
Gorbachev's meetings in the news all the time, red is hot this
year, comrade,'' shouted Jeff O'Neill, 31, over the din of the rock
music.
   Among the guests were Alexander D. Terekhin, consul general in
San Francisco for the Soviet Union, and several of his aides and
their spouses.
   ``They said it definitely had the feeling of the Soviet Union,''
said Brian Raffi, the second partner in the nightclub.
   Raffi said Terekhin reacted favorably toward his idea of opening
a U.S.-style nightclub in Leningrad called Union Square, after the
famous San Francisco landmark.
   In the San Francisco club, giant cloth and metal red cupolas
dominated the interior of the disco. Paintings and sculptures by
modernist Russian artists decorated the walls. Halfway through the
night, a ballet company put on a fashion show of gaudy 14th century
Russian outfits.
   If people were just showing up for fun, that didn't disappoint
Raffi, who also owns one of the avant-garde music clubs in the
city's burgeoning nightclub district in the South of Market area,
known as SoMa for short.
   ``At my other club I've always tried to display art from new
artists and expose young people to new bands and new types of
music, and with this I've taken it a step farther by attempting to
expose them to a whole new culture,'' Raffi said. ``While they may
not come for an education, they can't really avoid it.''
   Keller, who described his ethnic heritage as three-quarters
Russian, said the nightclub has received enthusiastic support from
San Francisco's Russian-American community, one of the largest in
the United States.
   With their help, Red Square was able to highlight the night with
performances of traditional Russian songs and, the Cossack dance,
where a squatting man kicks his legs straight out from beneath him
one at a time.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0116 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1507EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u w AM-ScotusRdp Bjt   06-20 1013</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Scotus Rdp, Bjt,990</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>High Court Upholds New York City Law Banning Exclusive Clubs</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By RICHARD CARELLI</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The Supreme Court gave cities and states a
major victory Monday in their escalating legal assault on exclusive
membership policies in private clubs, unanimously upholding a New
York City law that bans such discrimination.
   The court said the city's law, aimed at large clubs that exclude
women and minorities as members, is constitutional.
   ``The law merely prevents an association from using race, sex or
other specified characteristics as shorthand measures in place of
what the city considers to be more legitimate criteria for
determining membership,'' Justice Byron R. White wrote for the
court.
   At least six other major cities _ Buffalo, Chicago, Detroit, Los
Angeles, San Francisco and Washington _ have enacted similar
ordinances recently.
   The court on Monday also:
   _Overturned, at least for now, a contempt citation that could
have cost the Roman Catholic Church $100,000 a day in fines for
withholding documents in a lawsuit by a pro-abortion rights group
challenging the church's tax-exempt status.
   _Ruled uanimously in a North Carolina case that prison inmates
may sue in federal courts the doctors who treated them behind bars.
   _Agreed, in an important new test of affirmative action, to
study a dispute over a Birmingham, Ala., plan for promoting more
black firefighters.
   In the private club case, the court ruled on a New York City law
that bans discrimination by public accommodation but exempts
``distinctly private organizations.''
   If a group is not classified as a religious corporation or as a
benevolent order, it generally is deprived of the ``distinctly
private'' exemption if it has more than 400 members, provides
regular meal service and regularly gets members' dues paid by
non-members such as members' employers.
   The New York State Clubs Association, comprising 125 private
clubs and associations, challenged the New York City law soon after
it was enacted in 1984.
   The city had invoked the law in initiating proceedings against
four men-only clubs: the 10,003-member New York Athletic Club, the
4,329-member University Club, the 1,900-member Century Association
and the 1,600-member Union League Club.
   The law's challengers said it does not give individual clubs an
opportunity to prove they should not be treated as a public
accommodation.
   While stating that the law's effect on any individual club may
be challenged, the high court said the law may be applied to some
clubs without violating the constitutionally protected right of
association.
   White's opinion for the court noted that ``a considerable amount
of private or intimate association'' might occur in a large,
private club with dining facilities.
   But he said the same is true ``in many restaurants and other
places of public accommodation, but that fact alone does not afford
the entity as a whole any constitutional immunity to practice
discrimination when the government has barred it from doing so.''
   American Bar Association President Rober McCrate, whose
organization had supported the city law, praised the court's
decision.
   `If women and minorities are to have equal access to the
marketplace, so-called private clubs that are common place for
business discussions and other activities related to the
marketplace must be subject to anti-discrimination laws,'' McCrate
said. ``The court has taken an important step to eliminate this
subtle form of discrimination and guarantee these rights.''
   Beate Bloch, a lawyer who helped represent the U.S. Conference
of Mayors and other governmental organizations in backing the city
law, called the ruling ``a broad victory allowing cities to
formulate general criteria to prohibit invidious discrimination
practices by these clubs.''
   In previous decisions, the Supreme Court has ruled that states
may force the U.S. Jaycees and Rotary International to admit women
as members.
   In ruling unanimously in the Rotary case two years ago, the
justices suggested that numerous other male-only or female-only
private organizations may have to comply with state laws requiring
equal access to public accommodations.
   In Monday's ruling, White said some clubs may be able to prove
they were organized for ``specific expressive purposes'' that would
be thwarted ``if they cannot confine ... membership to those who
share the same sex, for example, or the same religion.''
   But he added, ``It seems sensible enough to believe that many of
the large clubs covered by the (New York City) law are not of this
kind.''
   In a separate opinion, Justice Antonin Scalia noted that New
York City's law does not affect ``benevolent orders'' that could be
characterized as lodges or fraternal organizations.
   He said such groups include the American Legion, the Jewish War
Veterans, AMVETS, the Veterans of Foreign Wars, various orders of
Masons, the Independent Order of Odd Fellows, the Loyal Order of
Moose, the Knights of Columbus, the Improved Benevolent and
Protective Order of Elks of the World, the Nobles of the Mystic
Shrine, the Ancient Order of Hibernians and the Knights of Malta.
   Scalia and two other justices who joined in the opinion, Anthony
M. Kennedy and Harry A. Blackmun, once belonged to male-only clubs.
   Scalia and Blackmun had belonged to the Cosmos Club in
Washington, which just last Saturday voted to admit women. Kennedy
quit San Francisco's all-male, white-only Olympic Club after he was
mentioned as a Supreme Court nominee.
   In other matters, the court:
   _Said it will decide in a case from Washington state whether
Indian tribes may control, through tribal zoning laws, the use of
land owned by non-Indians within a reservation's boundaries.
   _Placed, by a 7-2 vote, new limits on the power of states to
impose residency requirements restricting the number of lawyers
licensed to practice within their borders. The court barred
Virginia from reinstating a residency requirement challenged by a
lawyer living in neighboring Maryland.
   _Refused to order Tennessee to help pay for continuing efforts
to racially desegregate Nashville area public schools.
   _Let stand a ruling from Missouri that forces some states to pay
for expert witnesses on hypnosis when criminal defendants challenge
hypnotically enhanced testimony by prosecution witnesses.
   _Agreed to decide in a Nevada case whether people accused to
driving under the influence of alcohol are entitled to jury trials.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0117 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1524EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r w AM-Scotus-JuryTrials     06-20 0338</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Scotus-Jury Trials,340</2ND_LINE>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The Supreme Court agreed Monday to decide
whether people accused of driving under the influence of alcohol
are entitled to jury trials.
   The court said it will hear an appeal by two Nevada men who
claim the penalties for driving-under-the-influence (DUI)
convictions are serious enough to warrant jury trials.
   Lawyers for the two men said Nevada is one of only five states
that do not permit jury trials for such convictions. They listed
the other states as Louisiana, Mississippi, New Jersey and New
Mexico.
   The two men are Melvin R. Blanton, arrested in North Las Vegas
on July 18, 1986, and Mark D. Fraley, arrested in the same town on
June 29, 1986. Blanton has not been tried. Fraley was convicted and
was sentenced to two days in jail and fined $310.
   Both men were charged with a misdemeanor that carries a minimum
penalty of two days in jail or 48 hours of community service. The
maximum sentence is six months in jail. Fines range from $200 to
$1,000, and there is also a mandatory 90 days suspension of driving
privileges for those convicted.
   The Nevada Supreme Court ruled last Dec. 31 that denying those
accused of driving under the influence a jury trial does not
violate their constitutional rights.
   The state court said its decision was dictated in part by the
burden that would be created for municipal courts if cities are
forced to hold jury trials for DUI cases.
   It would mean ``tremendous expense to the municipalities of this
state'' and could force some cities not to press charges against
drivers who drink, the state court said.
   The state court also rejected arguments that increased public
concern over drunken driving has made driving under the influence a
``serious'' crime that requires a jury trial for anyone accused of
the offense.
   The court will hear arguments in the case during its term
beginning in October with a ruling likely in 1989.
   The case is Blanton vs. North Las Vegas, 87-1437.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0118 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1529EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a AM-People-Shandling     06-20 0146</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-People-Shandling,0149</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Garry Shandling Declines `Tonight Show' Sub Job</HEAD>
<DATELINE>LOS ANGELES (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Comedian Garry Shandling has declined an
offer from NBC to continue as a guest host on ``The Tonight Show''
because of the pressures of his schedule, his manager said Monday.
   The production schedule of ``It's Garry Shandling's Show'' and
the immediate start of production on ``It's Garry Shandling's
Movie'' prevented Shandling from accepting the offer, said manager
Brad Grey.
   ``Johnny Carson has been one of the biggest supporters of my
career from the beginning,'' said Shandling, whose series appears
on Showtime pay network and Fox Broadcasting Co.
   ``It's ironic that `The Tonight Show,' which has been such a
catalyst in my career, has helped put me in a position where I
simply don't have time to host it right now. This is something I
will really miss,'' he said in a statement.

</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0119 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1530EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i AM-India-Punjab     06-20 0508</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-India-Punjab,0527</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Four Dead, 40 Injured In Vegetable Market Bombing</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By SEEMA SIROHI</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>NEW DELHI, India (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Suspected Sikh extremists hurled a
homemade grenade into a vegetable market on Monday, killing four
Hindus and injuring 40 others, police said.
   The powerful blast occurred at 8 a.m. when more than 2,000
people were shopping at an outdoor vegetable market in Tilak Nagar,
a mixed Hindu and Sikh suburb of New Delhi.
   For the second day in a row, suspected Sikh extremists have
mounted bombing attacks outside Punjab state, the main killing
ground in their 6-year-old guerrilla war for a separate homeland.
   On Sunday, a bomb killed 15 people who were watching television
at a market in Kurukshetra in Haryana state, about 90 miles north
of New Delhi.
   Uttam Chand, a vegetable vendor, said the grenade in Monday's
attack struck the branch of a tree and then exploded among the
people.
   Windows of nearby houses shattered from the impact of the blast
and debris from damaged shops was flung over 160 feet away.
   Police are searching for a cream-colored van in which witnesses
saw four Sikh men leaving soon after the blast, according to Ajay
Chadha, deputy commissioner of police for the area.
   Police suspect members of Babbar Khalsa or Lion Sikhs, an
underground terrorist group based in the northern Punjab state.
   Chadha said police will conduct house-to-house searches.
   Another police official, who spoke on condition of anonymity,
said 1,200 policemen were deployed in the area to prevent
retaliation by the Hindus, but the area was peaceful.
   Tilak Nagar was predominantly Hindu until 1984, when Sikhs
started moving in after their homes were destroyed in anti-Sikh
riots touched off when Prime Minister Indira Gandhi was
assassinated by her Sikh bodyguards.
   Over the years, more Sikhs have arrived from Punjab, the
predominantly Sikh northern state where the militants have killed
at least 1,333 people so far this year. Although the militants
initially targeted Hindus, they have increasingly turned their guns
on fellow Sikhs they consider to be informers or too moderate.
   Sikh attacks outside Punjab state have claimed 46 lives so far
this year. Most of the victims died in bombings.
   About half those deaths occurred during or after the
government's siege last month of Sikh militants who took over the
Golden Temple in the Punjab city of Amritsar. The siege ended after
more than 40 Sikhs were killed.
   Although the government succeeded in clearing the Golden Temple
_ Sikhism's holiest shrine _ of armed militants, the siege prompted
fears the radicals would escalate attacks outside Punjab, where
killings continued.
   Sikh gunmen killed five people in Punjab in four attacks Sunday
night, according to the United News of India and Press Trust of
India. UNI also said security forces shot to death a Sikh extremist.
   Although Sikhs are a majority in Punjab, they form just 2
percent of India's predominantly Hindu 800 million people. Their
agitation for greater autonomy in Punjab began in 1982 and grew
into demands by several militant groups for an independent nation.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0120 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1511EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u w BC-Iran-Contra     06-20 0360</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-Iran-Contra,350</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>Eds: Subs pvs grafs 2-3, Joseph F. Fernandez, with further details
of charges. Adds last graf with background.</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By JAMES ROWLEY</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The CIA's former station chief in Costa Rica
was charged today with conspiracy, obstructing the Tower
Commission's investigation of the Iran-Contra affair and making
false statements to government agencies.
   Joseph F. Fernandez, 51, the CIA station chief also known as
Tomas Castillo, was accused of helping fired National Security
Council aide Oliver L. North and arms dealer Richard V. Secord
deliver weapons and military supplies to the Nicaraguan rebels on a
so-called southern front of that country's civil war.
   The indictment charged that between June and September of 1986,
Fernandez also helped other unidentified members of the conspiracy
deliver eight shipments of supplies to the Contras. He is also
charged with making false and misleading statements to a staff
member of the CIA's Central American Task Force regarding the true
nature of the airstrip he is accused of helping build in northern
Costa Rica to help deliver supplies to the Contras.
   Fernandez, 51, is also charged with making false statements to
the commission appointed by President Reagan that investigated the
Iran-Contra affair. The commission was headed by former Sen. John
Tower, R-Texas.
   The indictment charges that Fernandez made a false statement to
the Tower Commission on Jan. 21, 1987, when he said that he did not
know that a supply shipment he helped deliver to the Contras in
September 1986 contained weapons and ammunition.
   The five-count indictment also charges that Fernandez made a
false statement to the CIA's Office of Inspector General by stating
that the airstrip project in northern Costa Rica was a project to
train Costa Rican forces by that country's government.
   Each of the five charges carries a maximum sentence of five
years' imprisonment and a $250,000 fine.
   North, former national security adviser John Poindexter, Secord
and arms dealer Albert Hakim are charged with conspiracy to
illegally divert U.S.-Iran arms sales profits to the Nicaraguan
rebels. A federal court judge last week strongly indicated he was
ready to proceed with four separate trials of the four defendants.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0121 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1531EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i AM-Summit-Japan     06-20 0333</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Summit-Japan,340</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>With AM-Summit Rdp Bjt</HEAD>
<HEAD>Japanese Tout Agreement on Agricultural Products</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By W. DALE NELSON</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The benefit of the increased imports and lower
tariffs on U.S. beef and oranges that Japan agreed to Monday will
be available to other countries worldwide, said an official of the
Japanese delegation to the seven-nation economic summit said.
   The official, who spoke on condition that he not be identified,
said Australia had expressed a particular interest in the issue
because of its beef production. He said Japanese Prime Minister
Noboru Takeshita may send his agriculture minister, Takashi Sato,
to Australia soon.
   He said he did not know whether it would be necessary to
negotiate a separate agreement in such cases.
   ``I don't know the technicalities, but in principle, the
benefits of the agreement have global application,'' he said.
   The agreement reached in Tokyo calls for Japan to increase
imports and lower some of its tariffs on U.S. beef and oranges over
the next six years, U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said
in the Japanese capital.
   Japan would nearly double its imports of beef by 1991 and would
phase out its Livestock Industry Promotion Corporation, which
controls most beef imports.
   The Japanese would be allowed to set tariffs of 70 percent in
1991, 60 percent in 1992 and 50 percent in 1993 to give their
farmers time to adjust to the new rules.
   Yeutter said he expects the value of U.S. beef exports to Japan
to at least double as a result of the pact, reaching more than $1
billion a year.
   The Tokyo government agreed to expand market access for fresh
oranges by 22,000 tons per year, bringing them to 192,000 tons in
1990.
   From then on, fresh oranges from the United States could be
imported in unlimited quantities, at current tariff rates of 40
percent in season and 20 percent off season. Quotas on orange juice
will be phased out.
   The agreement was signed by Yeutter and Sato.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0122 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1536EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r w AM-Shultz-Asia     06-20 0545</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Shultz-Asia,540</2ND_LINE>
<BYLINE>Shultz Planning 15-Day Trip To Nine Asian Countries
^By HENRY GOTTLIEB</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Secretary of State George P. Shultz will
attend a meeting of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations in
Bangkok next month and visit eight other countries during a 15-day,
farewell-to-Asia trip that begins July 6, the State Department
announced Monday.
   Shultz's last trip to the region before the Reagan
administration leaves office next January will take him to more
countries than any of his annual sojurns in Asia since he became
secretary of state in 1982.
   After attending the July 7-9 meeting of the Southeast Asian
nations, Shultz will travel to Malaysia, Indonesia, the
Philippines, Hong Kong, China, South Korea, Japan and the Marshall
Islands.
   In Bangkok, Shultz will take part in trade and political
discussions with foreign ministers of the six ASEAN nations and
their major trading partners, Japan, Australia, New Zealand,
Britain, Canada and the European Common Market.
   This year's session comes at a time of increasing hope of a
settlement of the region's most volatile political issue _ the
occupation of Cambodia by Vietnamese troops.
   Vietnam has promised to withdraw its forces by the early 1990s.
In addition, there have been reports that China is willing to help
bring about ASEAN's conditions for a settlement, namely that the
Khmer Rouge, which ran Cambodia in the late 1970s, be left out of
any new Cambodian government.
   State Department spokeswoman Phyllis Oakley confirmed that China
has signalled in private its backing for a non-Khmer Rouge regime
in Cambodia. She declined to comment on a report in The Washington
Post this weekend that China had gone even further and had agreed
to get Khmer Rouge leader Pol Pot out of the Cambodian picture by
giving him asylum.
   Shultz and the ASEAN leaders are also expected to confer on the
increasingly difficult problem posed by the new flood of people
fleeing Vietnam in rickety boats. The United States is concerned
that the influx will cause an anti-refugee reaction among Southeast
Asian nations that have provided asylum for the escapees since 1975.
   In the Philippines, Shultz will discuss the future of U.S.
rights at two major military bases, Clark Field and Subic Bay naval
station. The United States is negotiating with the government of
Philippine President Corazon Aquino over base rights and the
Filipinos want huge amounts of U.S. aid for keeping out the welcome
mat.
   U.S. relations with China have been warm in recent years, though
the Reagan administration has critized the Beijing government for
selling missiles to Middle Eastern countries and has been annoyed
at China's refusal to back a vote in the United Nations for an arms
embargo against Iran. Shultz is expected to discuss these two
issues when he meets leaders in Beijing.
   In South Korea, he will meet President Rho Tae-woo for talks
about the country's democratization and to discuss plans for the
1988 Olympic games to be held in Seoul in September.
   Shultz will be the highest-ranking U.S. official to visit Japan
since Prime Minister Noboru Takeshita took office last year. As
usual, trade is expected to dominate the discussions.
   After leaving Tokyo, Shultz will fly home by way of the Marshall
Islands, which became an independent country in October 1986.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0123 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1535EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a AM-People-Murphy     06-20 0161</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-People-Murphy,0165</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Eddie Murphy Signs TV Deal with CBS</HEAD>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Eddie Murphy has signed a three-year exclusive
television deal with CBS, the network said Monday.
   CBS said Eddie Murphy Television Entertainment Inc. will produce
a half-hour series, pilots and three annual specials for the
network. CBS said Murphy would produce and appear in broadcasts,
but didn't elaborate.
   ``Eddie Murphy is one of the most sensational entertainment
personalities of our day. His addition to the CBS family
exemplifies our commitment to aggressively provide the best
available entertainment to the American audience,'' said CBS
Entertainment President Kim LeMasters.
   CBS is struggling to get out of third place in the Nielsen
ratings.
   Murphy became a big box-office draw after several seasons as a
regular on NBC's ``Saturday Night Live,'' starring in the movies
``Trading Places,'' ``48 Hours,'' ``Beverly Hills Cop,'' ``Beverly
Hills Cop II'' and ``Eddie Murphy Raw,'' a concert film. His latest
film, ``Coming to America,'' opens June 29.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0124 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1552EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r w AM-DetroitPandas 1stLd-Writethru a0614 06-20 0579</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Detroit Pandas, 1st Ld-Writethru, a0614,520</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Government Denies Permit for Michigan Panda Exhibition</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: Adds one graf with World Wildlife Fund reaction</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By TIM BOVEE</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A Michigan exhibition of two rare giant pandas
from China might harm the species, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife
Service said Monday in refusing permission to import the animals.
   The Pandarama exhibit, sponsored by Michigan United Conservation
Clubs and the state Department of Natural Resources, would have
displayed the animals for 100 days this summer at the Michigan
State Fairgrounds in Detroit.
   Under an agreement with China's Sichuan Province, the exhibitors
would pay at least $300,000 for the loan of the pandas, and the
money would be used to build a panda captive-breeding facility and
to improve wild pandas' natural habitat.
   ``There are some risks to the species from the loan which are
not adequately outweighed by the potential benefits,'' the Fish and
Wildlife decision said. ``A reduction in the threat of extinction
from this import cannot be demonstrated from the information in the
record.''
   The decision said expansion of facilities for breeding pandas in
captivity ``could lead to the removal of additional animals from
the wild to stock it.''
   The two pandas proposed for the Michigan exhibit are already
living in captivity in the Chendu Zoo.
   Under an international treaty, pandas born in 1984 and after
cannot be imported without a permit. Fewer than 1,000 giant pandas
are thought to exist.
   A spokesman for Michigan United Conservation Clubs, Don Stypula,
said the agency's ruling was ``preposterous'' and the exhibit's
organizers would appeal through administrative channels.
   ``We're wondering now how the Chinese are going to react to
this,'' Stypula said. ``This is a slap in the face to them, more so
than to us.''
   The Fish and Wildlife decision came amid efforts by the World
Wildlife Fund and the American Association of Zoological Parks and
Aquariums, to close an exhibition of two Chinese pandas in Toledo,
Ohio.
   After the Fish and Wildlife Service granted permission for the
Toledo exhibition, the animal preservation groups sued in federal
court in Washington. They argued that the Fish and Wildlife Service
failed to determine that the pandas weren't imported for commercial
purposes and that their display would promote survival of the
species. Both are criteria for issuing an import permit.
   The Toledo Zoo argued that closing the exhibit would deny the
public a chance to see the endangered species and to learn
something about China. Zoo attorneys also said closing the
exhibition could harm international relations between the United
States and China.
   David Klinger, a spokesman for the Fish and Wildlife Service,
said the agency found ``a more conclusive demonstration of benefit
to the species in the Toledo case.''
   The decision also said having an exhibition in Detroit at the
same time one was under way in nearby Toledo would reduce the
educational benefits.
   Backers of the Toledo exhibit reached agreement for the loan
with the China Wildlife Conservation Association, which is
affiliated with China's national government.
   The Michigan organizers dealt with official bodies in Sichuan
Province, where most wild pandas live. The provincial authorities
in turn handled contacts with China's national government, Stypula
said.
   William Reilly, president of the World Wildlife Fund, praised
the denial of the Michigan permit. ``Short-term loans of giant
pandas to the United States were out of control,'' he said.
``Economic incentives simply cannot be allowed to drive American
zoos and amusement parks to import pandas.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0125 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1533EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u i PM-Summit-Political 4thLd-Writethru a0555 06-20 0310</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Summit-Political, 4th Ld-Writethru, a0555,320</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>With PM-Summit Rdp Bjt</HEAD>
<HEAD>Officials Endorse US Position on Laundering of Drug Profits</HEAD>
<NOTE>EDs: New throughout with political statement; No Pickup.</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By JEFF BRADLEY</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>TORONTO (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Leaders of the seven summit nations today
endorsed a U.S. proposal to curb the laundering of drug profits and
strongly condemned terrorism in all forms, including the taking of
hostages.
   The leaders pledged their ``full contribution'' to international
efforts to resettle Afghan refugees. And while welcoming
U.S.-Soviet reductions in nuclear arms, they said the Soviet
military buildup in the Far East is a ``major source of instability
in Asia.''
   In a statement read by Canadian Foreign Minister Joe Clark, the
leaders took ``positive note'' of East European countries' growing
interest in ending their economic isolation, but said commerce with
those countries should be on a commercial basis under the rules of
international trade.
   The statement said ``terrorists must not go unpunished'' and
endorsed the principle that hijacked aircraft should not be allowed
to take off once they have landed.
   On drugs, the leaders supported the recent U.S. initiative for a
special task force to coordinate the global fight against narcotics
and said greater efforts are especially needed ``to trace, freeze
and confiscate the proceeds of drug traffickers and to curb money
laundering.''
   Left out of the joint statement were several contentious
regional issues where the leaders took an unofficial stand.
   On the Middle East, they said the violence on the Israeli-held
West Bank showed the need for a negotiated settlement between
Israel and its Arab neighbors, and on South Africa, they called for
clemency for the Sharpeville Six, five black men and one woman
sentenced to hang for a lynch-mob attack on a black policeman. On
Southeat Asia, they called for the withdrawal of Vietnamese troops
from Cambodia and reestablishment of the country's independence.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0126 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1559EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i AM-SouthAfrica     06-20 0568</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-South Africa,0590</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Botha To Appoint Black Minister, But Says No Vote for Blacks</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By ANDREW TORCHIA</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>CAPE TOWN, South Africa (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   President P.W. Botha said Monday
he would appoint a black Cabinet minister, but his government would
not give blacks a one-man, one-vote system despite increasing
pressure from anti-apartheid campaigners.
   ``(Such) systems have failed in Africa,'' Botha said in a speech
to Parliament. ``Africa is a graveyard of failed experiments with
Western models and systems rammed down its throat.''
   He reiterated his intention to name a black Cabinet minister as
a means of giving the 26 million black majority a voice in the
central government, but said his government would press ahead with
social reforms based on group rights, not individual rights.
   The South African president described as ``absolute nonsense'' a
proposal by Democratic Party policymakers in the United States to
designate South Africa ``a terrorist state.''
   ``To declare South Africa's actions against terrorists to be
terrorism is to call a fireman an arsonist,'' Botha told a joint
sitting of Parliament, which includes white, Asian and mixed-race
chambers.
   He said security forces have recently seized several African
National Congress guerrillas responsible for explosions in Pretoria
and nearby black townships, as well as the murder of three black
policemen.
   The Law and Order Ministry later said 23 suspected guerrillas
had been arrested in the past three months in connection with 16
attacks, including a bombing June 3 near Johannesburg that killed
four people.
   The ANC, banned in South Africa, is the largest guerrilla group
fighting the South African government and its policy of apartheid,
which gives the country's 5 million whites control of the
government and the economy.
   Botha said revolutionaries have suffered ``severe setbacks'' but
that they were planning ``an intensified onslaught'' in the next
few months, including a campaign to disrupt nationwide municipal
elections in October.
   Botha appealed to exiled militants, including ANC members, to
renounce violence.
   Information Minister Stoffel van der Merwe, at a news briefing
to elaborate on Botha's speech, said legislation would be
introduced in August to eliminate a requirement that Cabinet
ministers be Parliament members.
   This requirement prevents Cabinet membership for blacks, who are
excluded from Parliament.
   He complained of ``increasing attempts to interfere in our
domestic affairs, to isolate South Africa and to increase pressure
on us.''
   Van der Merwe cited as an example of this pressure the
international campaign seeking clemency for the Sharpeville Six, a
group of blacks sentenced to hang for complicity in the 1984 mob
killing of a black local official.
   ``It becomes very difficult to judge the case purely on its
merits because of the tremendous political pressure put on the
state president and the South African government,'' van der Merwe
said.
   Botha's speech came on the eve of a joint debate by Parliament's
three chambers on legislation to create a negotiating forum with
the disenfranchised black majority.
   It will be the first time since the multiracial Parliament was
created in 1984 that members of all three houses will participate
in a full debate on a bill.
   The bill seeks to include moderate blacks in decision-making,
but falls short of the one-man, one-vote system and maintains white
domination of the government.
   Many black leaders say they won't participate in the forum. Zulu
leader Mangosuthu Buthelezi, a prominent moderate, has said he
won't participate unless imprisoned ANC leader Nelson Mandela is
freed.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0127 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1618EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r p AM-Falwell-Dukakis     06-20 0171</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Falwell-Dukakis,180</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Falwell Says Dukakis Would Be `Step Backward'</HEAD>
<DATELINE>BIRMINGHAM, Ala. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Moral Majority founder Jerry Falwell
says a victory by Democrat Michael Dukakis in the presidential race
could sweep away family values strengthened during the Reagan
administration.
   ``I think Governor Dukakis will be a step backwards,'' the
Baptist minister said after delivering a sermon Sunday night at
Shades Mountain Independent Church. ``Everybody knows I'm
supporting George Bush.''
   The reverand said ``the family values reinstated during the
Reagan years certainly could be swept away. Bush is the best person
to carry on the work of Reagan.''
   Falwell said the religious right will play a significant role in
November's election with the Moral Majority taking part in
educational efforts and voter registration.
   Falwell, who last year promised not to get involved in politics,
said Sunday that quitting is difficult to do, and urged his
followers to support the vice president.
   Another well-known evangelist, Pat Robertson, has urged those
who supported his bid for the Republican nomination to back Bush.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0128 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1714EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a AM-FullReservoirs 1stLd-Writethru a0626 06-20 0527</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Full Reservoirs, 1st Ld - Writethru, a0626,0534</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Streak Of Wet Years Leaves Upper Rio Grande Prepared For Dry Spell</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: CORRECTS spelling of Ed to Edd in graf 4 bgng ``I've been''</NOTE>
<HEAD>With AM-Drought Rdp Bjt</HEAD>
<DATELINE>EL PASO, Texas (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   While farmers in some parts of the United
States are suffering through a drought, in far West Texas, along
the upper Rio Grande, rain is still considered an annoyance.
   This year's runoff from mountain snow into the Rio Grande is 40
percent below average, but the region's reservoirs and irrigation
systems keep on watering the fields without need of a cloud ever
crossing the desert sky.
   Thanks to a streak of wet years _ from 1981 through 1987, the
flow from the Rio Grande into Elephant Butte Reservoir totaled 78
percent above average _ farmers in southern New Mexico and far West
Texas are well-prepared for a run of dry years.
   ``I've been here a decade and I haven't seen a short-water year
yet,'' Edd Fifer, manager of the El Paso County Water Improvement
District, told the El Paso Times.
   Both the El Paso and Elephant Butte irrigation districts rely on
water stored at southern New Mexico reservoirs, and farmers in the
district are guaranteed three acre-feet of water a year, if it's
available. An acre-foot of water is enough to cover one acre to a
depth of one foot.
   ``It really does spoil people,'' Fifer said. With plenty of
water on hand, it's tempting to relax water conservation practices.
A dry year reminds people that every drop saved today may be needed
later, he said.
   The last year that farmers had to make do with less was 1978,
when they were allotted only nine inches per acre.
   But as long as water is left in Elephant Butte and Caballo
reservoirs, farmers downstream don't have to pray for rain. In
fact, rain is often an inconvenience.
   Fields are watered at staggered times based on irrigation
schedules. But a rainstorm means all the fields are wet at the same
time and then dry out at the same time, meaning farmers will be
demanding water at the same time a few days after the rain.
   And a severe rain, such as one that hit the Mesilla Valley in
September 1987, can damage crops.
   At capacity, Elephant Butte and Caballo reservoirs can hold 2.4
million acre-feet of water, about four times the annual amount sent
downstream for irrigation.
   In recent years, extra water has been released downstream
because the reservoirs were full. This year, that release of extra
water ended on May 13.
   Farmers on the U.S. side of the river don't benefit from the
extra releases because agriculture has adapted to the
three-acre-feet guarantee. But some Mexican farmers have pumped the
extra water left in the Rio Grande for their fields _ and are upset
that the water isn't there this year.
   About two weeks ago, 40 to 50 farmers from Juarez demonstrated
at the Riverside Dam, protesting the reduced amount of water
available below the dam, said David Overvold, chief of the Water
and Land Division of the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation's Rio Grande
Project.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0129 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1714EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i AM-Israel-Explosion     06-20 0410</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Israel-Explosion,0424</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Gas Explosion Injures 24, Nursing Home Evacuated</HEAD>
<DATELINE>HERZLIYA, Israel (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Tanks of cooking gas exploded in a
pizzeria in this coastal resort Monday, injuring 24 Israelis and
forcing the evacuation of 60 residents of an adjacent nursing home,
police said.
   The cause of the explosion was under investigation, but appeared
to be accidental, police said.
   ``All of a sudden we heard a blast and everything went up in the
air,'' said Rachel Bardo, a waitress at the Pizzeria Rimini who was
hospitalized with a facial injury. ``We were all up in the air.
   ``I didn't understand what was happening ... I lost
consciousness and got up somehow and went outside to call for
help,'' she told Israel television.
   Police said gas leaked from 15 tanks stored in the pizzeria,
located about 150 yards from the Mediterranean. Herzliya is about
six miles north of Tel Aviv.
   The explosion gutted the restaurant, blew away the rear wall and
damaged the second floor, said Associated Press photographer Max
Nash. Two trucks and one car were overturned, he said.
   Police said the blast also damaged the staircase leading to the
nursing home on the second and third floors above the pizzeria.
   ``We were just about to take the patients out to serve something
to drink when everything collapsed,'' Yeshayahu Kroiter, a nursing
home employee, told Israel TV. ``There was hysteria, and everything
went dark and that's the last thing I felt.''
   Nursing home residents were evacuated by a fire department
crane. A bloodied blanket hung out of one of the shattered
second-floor windows.
   Some of the elderly victims, including a man and a woman with
blood on their arms and legs, appeared to be in shock.
   ``Take it easy, mummy, take it easy,'' one woman told her
elderly mother, who was walking amid the rubble in a daze.
   Police said it took two hours to evacuate the nursing home
residents and take those who escaped unharmed to a nearby hotel.
   Of the 24 injured, a 20-year-old woman was serious condition
with a fractured skull, and two men suffered moderate injuries,
said Dr. Shlomi Entebbi of nearby Meir Hospital. The other 21
sustained minor injuries, he said.
   Police said the explosion was triggered by the gas leak, but
that the cause was still under investigation.
   ``It apparently was not terrorism, but we still must see why
there was a leak,'' said a Tel Aviv police official, speaking on
condition of anonymity.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0130 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1715EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a AM-Brites     06-20 0636</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Brites,0659</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Bright & Brief</HEAD>
<DATELINE>ENID, Okla. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Randy Hylton's job is driving stars around,
so when word got out that the bus parked outside his home here had
a destination sign that said ``Burt Reynolds,'' Randy got a lot of
knocks on his door.
   For the past eight years, the Enid resident has driven show
buses _ customized Greyhounds emphasizing creature comforts _ for
entertainers on tour. Some of his passengers have been such singers
as Julio Iglesias, Julian Lennon, Jermaine Jackson, Tanya Tucker,
Stevie Nicks, magician David Copperfield and, his favorite, Crosby,
Stills and Nash.
   The buses, Hylton said recently, feature all the comforts of
home with two television sets, two stereos, two VCRs, a microwave
and a refrigerator and can sleep nine.
   Hylton said people frequently come by to gawk at the large
custom-painted showbuses _ costing as much as $300,000 _ that he
parks outside when he's home between jobs on the road.
   During a recent stopover, road crew members jokingly rolled a
destination sign on the bus to reveal actor Burt Reynolds' name. A
lot of neighbors were sure that the actor who recently married
actress Loni Anderson was taking a delayed honeymoon trip to Enid.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>WEST MINERAL, Kan. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A festival named for a coal shovel was
a mighty big time of dancing, singing and politicians stumping for
votes at the ``Big Brutus Summer `88 Celebration'' in southeast
Kansas.
   About 10 politicans campaigned on the stage underneath Big
Brutus, a coal shovel that stands 16 stories tall. State Sen. Phil
Martin, a Pittsburg Democrat, brought a calliope to the festival.
   ``I think calliopes and politicians have a lot in common,''
Martin said. ``We are both loud and we run on hot air.''
   Candidates for the Kansas Legislature, county offices and a
congressional seat also turned out to campaign.
   Festival officials said an estimated 8,000 people attended the
weekend festival.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>DALLAS (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Even Rembrandt, Picasso and da Vinci might be
envious of four local artists whose works will soon be seen by tens
of thousands of onlookers every hour.
   The work of the four, selected from 77 entrants in the 2nd
annual billboard competition sponsored by Patrick Media Group of
Dallas Inc., will be displayed next month on billboards throughout
Dallas.
   ``Most of the artwork, you have to go to a gallery or museum to
look at,'' contest winner Chong Keun Chu told the Dallas Morning
News. ``But this way, everyone can look at it. It's another way to
communicate.''
   Marilyn Jolly, fellow artist and contest winner, agreed.
   ``The more that people can look at your work and respond to it,
the more that communication goes on,'' Ms. Jolly said.
   ``I think when you take something that's really commercial and
then take the commerce out of it, that's real interesting,'' said
Pamela Nelson, whose original artwork measured about the size of a
bumper sticker. Soon, it will compete with skyscrapers to capture
the attention of freeway drivers.
   Contest winner Arthello Beck Jr. said the billboard artist must
keep it simple to get across his or her message.
   ``If someone's going to drive by, you just get a glimpse of a
billboard,'' Beck said. ``You should say something real quickly and
get to the point and not have a lot of detail.''
   Ms. Nelson, whose artwork features a distinctively Dallas
clothesline with fashions ranging from Neiman-Marcus to Hypermart,
said some of the entries did not follow Beck's philosophy.
   ``There were some (paintings) I thought might need to be by a
red light,'' she said.
   The winning billboards will change locations every 60 days for
the next 12 months. But Chu said no matter where his work winds up,
he will find it.
   ``Wherever they put it, I'm going to go look at it _ a lot.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0131 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1719EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a AM-AverageWomen     06-20 0398</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Average Women,0409</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>The Average American Body</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: For Release 6 p.m. EDT</NOTE>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The average American woman wears a size 10 to 12
dress, stands 5-foot-3{ and weighs 134 pounds. She has soft body
tone, short, straight, brown hair, and imperfect, untanned skin.
   The average American woman wants to wear a dress two-to-four
sizes smaller, stand an inch taller and weigh 11 pounds less. She
would like more muscles, wavy or curly brown hair and smooth,
tanned skin.
   So says the Gallup Organization's ``national body image
survey,'' which was commissioned by, and described in, American
Health magazine.
   The average American woman thinks men want a woman who wears a
size 8 dress, stands 5-foot-4 and weighs 118 pounds. She thinks
they want a woman with a thin, soft body, long, wavy, blond hair
and tanned, smooth skin.
   The average American man doesn't think much about dress sizes,
but apparently speculates a great deal about the body shape of the
average American woman. He wants one with a full rear-end,
medium-width hips, a small-to-medium waist and medium-sized
breasts. He wants an average body type (not thin), soft body tone
(not muscular), long wavy hair and smooth, tanned skin.
   Now, as to the average American man:
   He is 5-foot-10, 172 pounds, with a lean build, but he wants to
be an inch taller, a pound lighter, more muscular. He thinks she
wants a man who's six feet, 173 pounds, and muscular. In fact, she
wants him the way he wants him: 5-11, 171, muscular. Men think
women like them to have hairy chests, and they're right.
   The poll also found the American woman's zest for thinness is on
the wane. Only 35 percent of women say they'd like a thin body;
about half are satisfied to be of ``average'' weight.
   But Gallup found women still are more weight-conscious than men:
while they would like to lose about 10 pounds each, men on balance
are satisfied with their weight.
   The Gallup Organization said it used a representative national
cross-section of 1,037 adults who were interviewed in person.
   Among the survey's other conclusions:
   _Richer women are lighter and thinner than poorer ones, but rich
men have the biggest waistlines and the broadest shoulders and
chests.
   _Almost two-thirds of college educated women want a more
muscular, ``hard-bodied'' look, compared to 27 percent of those
without a college degree.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0132 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1605EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u i PM-DominicanRepublic-Manigat     06-20 0120</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Dominican Republic-Manigat,0124</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>URGENT</HEAD>
<HEAD>Manigat Arrives in Dominican Republic</HEAD>
<DATELINE>SANTO DOMINGO, Dominican Republic (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Haitian President
Leslie Manigat, deposed in a military coup, arrived in the
Dominican Republic today with his family, military sources said.
   Manigat was staying at the Dominican Concorde Hotel, a hotel
spokesman said.
   Lt. Gen. Henri Namphy today declared himself president of Haiti,
which shares the Caribbean island of Hispaniola with the Dominican
Republic.
   The coup ended Manigat's four months as Haiti's civilian
president. The coup came less than a week after Manigat fired
Namphy and tried to reorganize the military.
   Namphy had ruled Haiti as the head of a three-man junta for two
years until Manigat was elected and assumed office Feb. 7
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0133 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1611EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u i PM-SummitRdp 6thLd-Writethru   06-20 0944</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Summit Rdp, 6th Ld-Writethru,980</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Summit Leaders Turn Attention Toward Arms Control</HEAD>
<NOTE>EDs: Consolidates material in a0690, a0693; cuts final six grafs
to tighten</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By MARTIN CRUTSINGER</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>TORONTO (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Leaders of the seven-nation economic summit
called on the nations of the Soviet bloc today to ``end their
economic isolation'' and gave a solid endorsement to U.S. efforts
to reduce nuclear arms.
   The leaders summed up their political discussion by issuing a
joint statement at the mid-point of their three-day conference.
   ``Our peoples stand in solidarity within the framework of our
existing alliances for the cause of freedom, to safeguard democracy
and the prosperity which it has produced,'' the statement said.
   The leaders repeated earlier condemnations of terrorism and also
endorsed efforts to hamper hijackers by preventing commandered
aircraft from taking off once they have landed.
   On drugs, the leaders backed a U.S. proposal to establish a
special task force to improve international cooperation in the
battle against illegal narcotics. The effort is aimed at choking
off the flow of profits to drug traffickers.
   The leaders put aside or resolved their disagreements on Third
World debt and farm subsidies as they took discussed East-West
relations in the wake of President Reagan's Moscow summit with
Soviet leader Mikhail S. Gorbachev.
   ``We take positive note of Eastern countries growing interest in
ending their economic isolation, for example in the establishment
and development of relations with the European Community,'' the
political statement said.
   Canadian Foreign Minister Joe Clark read the statement to an
auditorium filled with journalists as the leaders began their
second formal meeting of the day.
   In a companion statement read along with the poltical
communique, the countries expressed their ``abhorence of
apartheid'' and said that every legal option should be exercised to
obtain clemency for the Sharpeville Six, black South Africans who
were convicted of complicity in the 1984 mob killing of black town
councilor during riots provoked by a rent increase.
   The political statement also endorsed U.S. arms control
negotiations with the Soviet Union and called for further
negotiations to reduce non-nuclear forces in Europe.
   The summit leaders congratulated Reagan for his efforts to
obtain a U.S.-Soviet treaty to eliminate medium-range nuclear
weapons and said the ratified document ``sets vitally important
precedents for future arms control agreements.
   ``We now look for deep cuts in U.S. and Soviet strategic arms,''
the leaders said.
   The Western leaders held a morning and afternoon session on the
second day of the summit, broken up with a luncheon at a downtown
hotel. It was at the luncheon that the officials gave final
approval to the political communique.
   The morning meeting, like the first session on Sunday, ran
overtime, lasting 35 minutes longer than scheduled.
   The morning discussion between Reagan and the other world
leaders focused on progress made in refining the economic
coordination process, including a U.S. proposal to add a commodity
price index to the list of indicators the countries monitor to make
sure they are pursuing complimentary policies, presidential
spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said at a briefing.
   The index will include gold as one of about 40 commodities being
monitored, but the United States has insisted that index is not an
effort to return the world to the gold standard which was abandoned
in 1973.
   The United States received good news on one contentious trade
issue while the Toronto summit was going on. Negotiators in Tokyo
announced they had reaced agreement on the issue of opening the
Japanese market to more shipments of American beef and oranges.
   The landmark agreement calls for Japan to lower tariffs on beef
and oranges over the next six years with U.S. officials predicting
it could double the value of U.S. beef exports to the country,
pushing them to more than $1 billion annually.
   The 14th annual economic summit meeting between leaders of the
United States, Japan, West Germany, Britain, France, Italy and
Canada began on Sunday and is scheduled to conclude with a final
economic communique on Tuesday.
   At the opening session, the Western leaders quickly decided to
play down a contentious dispute involving farm subsidies and
approved in principle a debt-relief package for the poorest
countries of the world.
   The leaders pledged in a statement after their first session
Sunday afternoon to continue their close economic cooperation,
which they credited for keeping the world economy out of a
recession following the October stock market collapse.
   ``We all feel we have made real progress in recent years. Our
message is and should be one of confidence and optimism in dealing
with the challenges confronting us,'' the leaders said.
   In an effort to moderate their generally optimistic tone, the
leaders interjected a note of caution in their joint statement,
which was issued by Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney.
   ``There is no room for complacency. Difficult challenges
remain,'' the statement said. ``Our countries must develop further
our economic coordination efforts. Sound policies must be
continued.''
   U.S. Treasury Secretary James A. Baker III echoed the positive
statement today, saying, ``I think there is to some extent an air
of satisfaction, but I must say I don't believe it's an air of
complacency.''
   Baker, interviewed by CBS-TV, said finance ministers had engaged
in an extensive discussion on inflation and that ``the general
consensus (is) that while we must remain vigilant, we think it is
pretty well under control.''
   The U.S. official described the ministers as ``pleased with the
degree of exchange rate stability'' that exists and have found
``the world economy is in pretty good shape.''
   On the agenda today were two formal sessions and a dinner
designed as a brainstorming session on long-range problems. Closing
ceremonies are scheduled for Tuesday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0134 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1616EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u i PM-Haiti 7thLd-Writethru a0644 06-20 0989</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Haiti, 7th Ld-Writethru, a0644,1020</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Namphy Declares Himself President of Haiti</HEAD>
<NOTE>EDS: LEADS with 6 grafs to UPDATE with Manigat arriving in the
Dominican Republic with family. PICKS up 6th graf pvs bgng, ``The
president betrayed ...</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By ED McCULLOUGH</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<TEXT>
   PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti (AP) _ Lt. Gen. Henri Namphy today
declared himself president of Haiti after troops stormed the
national palace and deposed civilian President Leslie Manigat.
   ``The future of democracy and liberty was at stake. The army
must protect the superior interests of the country and must head
the country,'' Namphy said in a television broadcast late this
morning from the presidential palace.
   ``To this end, a military government has been formed with, as
president, Gen. Henri Namphy,'' he said.
   The coup ended four months of civilian government and put Namphy
back in command of the nation he led for two years as head of a
three-man junta. It came less than a week after Manigat fired
Namphy and tried to reorganize the military.
   Namphy was surrounded by military leaders, including Lt. Col.
Jean-Claude Paul, once Manigat's chief military ally. It was not
immediately known if Paul had aligned himself with Namphy.
   Manigat and his family arrived today in Santo Domingo, the
capital of neighboring Dominican Republic. Manigat was staying at
the Dominican Concorde Hotel, a hotel spokesman said. Haiti and the
Dominican Republic share the Caribbean island of Hispaniola.
   ``The president betrayed your confidence and violated the
constitution he swore to observe,'' Namphy said. ``He took a path
that led irrevocably to the most brutal form of dictatorship. To
this end, he attacked the army and shook its high command to make
it a docile instrument of personal power. He thus imperiled the
conquest of Feb. 7.''
   A few hours later, the military announced a new Cabinet of
ministers. The announcement said the Senate and House of Deputies
had been dissolved and that the new government would rule by decree.
   The new Cabinet, announced on state-run television by Col. Gary
Leon, general secretary of the armed forces, was made up of 11
members of the military and one civilian.
   Manigat was inaugurated as president Feb. 7. The junta stepped
down after he took office.
   Manigat retired Namphy as commander in chief of Haiti's
7,000-man army on Friday, charging him with insubordination in
ordering the transfer of Paul and other high-ranking officers three
days earlier.
   Namphy first appeared on state-run television at about 1:30 a.m.
in a broadcast from the palace shortly after the coup.
   ``The army will lead the country this way,'' he declared, waving
an Uzi submachine gun and flanked by soldiers.
   There was no official word on casualties from the takeover.
   A man at Manigat's residence was on the telephone with the Miami
News when soldiers moved in. Jean Lescouflair identified himself as
director of the regional Information Ministry and a former Miami
teacher. He said Manigat was upstairs with government ministers
discussing how to respond to Namphy's statement when soldiers
arrived at about 3:08 a.m.
   ``I am hearing some noise coming like a machine gun,'' he said,
lowering his voice. ``They are entering the yard now ... It seems
like they are smashing the cars in the yard.''
   At 3:20 a.m. Lescouflair told the Miami News he could hear a
security guard shouting in French, ``Don't shoot! We're coming
out!''.
   A few minutes later, someone was heard yelling ``Hands up!'' in
French, the newspaper said. The last words from Lescouflair were,
``Call my wife. Goodbye.''
   Haitian journalists said troops loyal to Manigat were killed
when soldiers backed by three tanks freed Namphy from house arrest
and stormed the palace. Namphy had been held at his residence in
Bon Repos, 15 miles outside the capital.
   The front of the palace did not appear damaged and showed no
sign of battle.
   The airport was closed today. By midday, the streets of the
capital were busy with cars, trucks and pedestrians.
   Early today, radio stations were not broadcasting news, only
music, and international operators refused to accept calls. One
operator said Namphy ordered operators not to place calls, but it
was possible to dial directly.
   People on the streets were aware of what had happened, despite
the lack of radio reports.
   ``It's not good for democracy, what happened, but it may be good
for Haiti,'' said one 22-year-old unemployed laborer. ``Maybe we
cannot talk, but maybe we can work.''
   The fighting began after a 10-minute blackout at about 7:30 p.m.
Sunday. The streets of this Caribbean capital became deserted.
Automatic and heavy caliber gunfire broke out around the palace.
   Heard from a hotel two blocks away, it died down, then surged
for 1{ hours again just after midnight, when explosions also were
heard.
   Government sources said Manigat, 57, was taken by ambulance from
his home to a military hospital. A Haitian journalist said Manigat
would be expelled from the country.
   An Agence France-Press reporter spoke by telephone with Manigat
early today and reported the president said he was uninjured.
   Earlier Sunday, Manigat retired the Port-au-Prince police chef
and transferred about two dozen officers, including the head of the
presidential guard.
   ``The presidential guard went to get Namphy and brought him to
the palace,'' said the Western diplomat, who spoke on condition of
anonymity.
   The army has controlled this impoverished nation during most of
its 184-year history. A junta ruled Haiti for two years after
dictator Jean-Claude Duvalier fled to exile in France in February
1986.
   The military ran the Jan. 17 balloting in which Manigat was
elected. The most popular candidates and most voters boycotted the
election, and it was widely criticized as rigged.
   An independently run election Nov. 29 was thwarted by violence
that left more than 30 people dead.
   Paul's soldiers were blamed for much of the violence, after
which the United States withheld $60 million in aid. Paul was
indicted in March by a U.S. grand jury on drug trafficking charges.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0135 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1618EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u i BC-SummitText 1stLd-Writethru-1stAdd a0703 06-20 0373</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-Summit Text, 1st Ld-Writethru-1st Add, a0703,360</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>TORONTO: our countries.</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   We strongly reaffirm our condemnation of terrorism in all its
forms, including the taking of hostages. We renew our commitment to
policies and measures agreed at previous summits, in particular
those against state-sponsored terrorism.
   We strongly condemn recent threats to air security, in
particular the destruction of a Korean airliner and the hijacking
of a Kuwaiti airliner. We recall the principle affirmed in previous
declarations that terrorists must not go unpunished. We appeal to
all countries who are not party to the international conventions on
civil aviation security, in particular the Hague Convention, to
accede to those conventions.
   We express support for work currently under way in the
International Civil Aviation Organization aimed at strengthening
international protection against hijackings. We welcome the most
recent declaration adopted by the ICAO Council which endorses the
principle that hijacked aircraft should not be allowed to take off
once they have landed, except in circumstances as specified by the
ICAO declaration.
   We welcome the adoption this year in Montreal and Rome of two
international agreements on aviation and maritime security to
enhance the safety of travelers.
   We reaffirm our determination to continue the fight against
terrorism through the application of rule of law, the policy of no
concessions to terrorists and their sponsors, and international
cooperation.
   The illegal use of drugs and illicit trafficking in them poses
grave risks to the peoples of summit countries as well as the
peoples of source and transit countries. There is an urgent need
for improved international cooperation in all appropriate fora on
programs to counter all facets of the illicit drug problem, in
particular production, trafficking, and financing of the drug
trade. The complexity of the problem requires additional
international cooperation, in particular to trace, freeze and
confiscate the proceeds of drug traffickers, and to curb money
laundering.
   We look forward to the successful negotiation in Vienna in
November of a United Nations Convention on illicit trafficking.
   We supported the initiative of the government of the United
States for a special task force to be convened to propose methods
of improving cooperation in all areas including national, bilateral
and multilateral efforts in the fight against narcotics.
</TEXT>
<HEAD>End of Text</HEAD>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0136 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1627EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u w PM-DefenseProbe 5thLd-Writethru a0667 06-20 1189</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Defense Probe, 5th Ld-Writethru, a0667,1100</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>EDs: INSERTS new 2nd graf with Meese rebutting criticism, Attorney
General; SUBS 19th graf with 2 grafs to give reax from Meese,
Justice Department. Removes last 3 grafs pvs to shorten.</NOTE>
<HEAD>Justice Officials Were `Asleep at the Switch' _ Grassley</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By TIM AHERN</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The Reagan Justice Department was ``asleep at
the switch'' three years ago when a Pentagon investigator
discovered that defense contractors and private consultants were
illegally obtaining Pentagon weapons secrets, Sen. Charles E.
Grassley said today.
   Attorney General Edwin Meese III denied the accusation, saying
at a news conference that the prosecution of defense procurement
cases has been one of the department's top priorities and that ``at
no time has this department had to be dragged into any indictment
where the evidence is there.''
   Grassley, R-Iowa, said in a floor speech that a top Justice
Department official grabbed the microphone from the investigator in
October 1985, as the investigator was about to testify about his
findings.
   Grassley, who chaired the House Judiciary subcommittee at the
time, said, ``I stopped the hearing at that point. I wish now I
hadn't. There wasnt anything in that testimony that could have
jeopardized that case.''
   ``The public must be made aware of the fact that the Justice
Department was asleep at switch,'' Grassley said, because it was
investigating a single company and ignoring reports of widespread
abuse in procurement, including bribery.
   The October 1985 testimony alleged that private consultants were
regularly receiving classified details about U.S. weapons systems.
   ``The Justice Department could have pursued this aggressively
more than three years ago but they didn't,'' he said in an earlier
interview with the Associated Press.
   The 2-year-old probe has focused chiefly on Navy weapons-buying.
It became public last week when FBI and Naval Investigative Service
agents conducted coast-to-coast raids on the offices of past and
present Pentagon officials, private consultants and contractors.
   U.S. Attorney Henry Hudson has said privately that perhaps as
many as 200 indictments could be expected out of the investigation,
a government source said Sunday.
   In October 1985 Grassley was chairman of the Senate Judiciary
administrative practices subcommittee, a panel which he used to
examine defense procurement practices. Grassley is a frequent
critic of what he calls widespread waste and abuse in Pentagon
spending.
   Grassley said Justice Department officials blocked the testimony
of Robert Segal, a Defense Department investigator who was the
Pentagon's liaison with the Justice Department's Defense
Procurement Fraud Unit. The DPFU was a special Justice Department
office set up to investigate waste in the military budget.
   It was well known in the Justice Department that some elements
of the Pentagon and the Justice Department held DPFU in low esteem
and there is speculation that when the current allegations first
came to light the matter was steered away from the agency and into
Hudson's office.
   Segal, who worked for the Pentagon's Defense Criminal
Investigative Service, was prepared to testify that private
consultants regularly received classified Pentagon documents that
should not have been available outside the government, Grassley
said.
   Segal also reported at the time that ``many of these (defense)
companies appear to have espionage units whose main function is to
obtain copies of highly classified documents in order to give their
companies a competitive edge,'' Grassley said.
   Grassley said the allegations predated the current
investigation. ``This goes back much before what we're seeing
now,'' he said.
   Segal's testimony, which he never got to deliver but which was
released publicly at the time, said that a defense procurement
criminal case against GTE Corp. ``is but the tip of the proverbial
iceberg. ... The investigation involves at least 25 companies. ...
Many of those companies are household words. ... The primary focus
of the case is ... the indiscriminate distribution of both
proprietary and highly classified government documents by
individuals within and without the government.''
   Justice Department official Victoria Toensing interrupted the
key part of Segal's testimony before he could give it and demanded
that it be halted, saying that he was touching on areas that
concerned criminal matters pending against GTE.
   After the contents of Segal's testimony came out in the news
media, the Justice Department issued a statement saying that ``The
release by Sen. Grassley's staff of erroneous, misleading and
inflammatory information about a criminal case that is currently
pending trial is most unfortunate and regrettable. ... Justice must
not be allowed to become a political football.''
   Responding to Grassley, Meese told a news conference that
``Investigating and prosecuting defense procurement fraud has been
one of the department's top priorities for several years.'' The
attorney general said that since 1985, the defense procurement
fraud unit has obtained about 43 indictments and criminal
informations in significant cases, has obtained 35 convictions and
has recovered some $32 million.
   When asked about Segal's testimony that the department had not
vigorously pursued the passing along of confidential information,
Meese said that ``I can assure you that at no time has this
department had to be dragged into any indictment where the evidence
is there.'' Meese also said there were a number of spin-off cases
that grew out of the GTE probe which are being prosecuted. He did
not identify them.
   President Reagan, attending a summit meeting of the leaders of
western democracies in Toronto, refused to comment Sunday on
reports that former Navy Secretary John Lehman Jr. may have warned
his longtime ally, military consultant Melvyn Paisley, that Paisley
was under investigation.
   ``I am not going to comment until we have all the information,''
Reagan said.
   Lehman has not returned numerous phone calls from The Associated
Press seeking comment.
   Paisley, a former top Navy official and close friend of Lehman,
has emerged as a principal target of the investigation. The FBI is
looking at Paisley's dealings with a number of major defense
contractors that hired him as a consultant shortly after he left
his Navy job in April 1987.
   Grassley said the scandal results from an atmosphere caused by
``a business-as-usual, good-old-boy network where people move from
the Pentagon to cushy jobs in private industry and everybody looks
out for their friends.''
   Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman Sam Nunn, interviewed
on ABC-TV's ``This Week with David Brinkley,'' said the Reagan
administration concentrated too much on obtaining more money for
the Pentagon, without paying enough attention to how it was being
spent.
   ``We had people being selected for their ideological beliefs,
for their salesmanship, but not for good sound management. I think
the emphasis has been on salesmanship and getting the money and the
management end of it has been the last of the list of priorities,''
said Nunn, D-Ga.
   His view was echoed by Rep. Les Aspin, D-Wis., chairman of the
House Armed Services Committee, who also appeared on the ABC show.
   ``The decisions in the Lehman Navy were really highly
centralized in a few people right around the secretary, John
Lehman, and he had a very strong view about people who were with
him and people who were against him. And some of the people who
were with him may be a little shady characters,'' Aspin said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0137 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1722EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a AM-Clubs-React     06-20 0611</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Clubs-React,0630</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Men Mourn End To All Male Bastions</HEAD>
<HEAD>With AM-Scotus Rdp</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By THOMAS F. McELROY</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Outside the formidable brick fortress that is
home to the New York Athletic Club, members reacted angrily Monday
to a U.S. Supreme Court decision that could force them to accept
women in their midst.
   ``That's a bad and sad piece of news,'' said one middle-aged
man, who like all of the nearly two dozen members approached for
comment refused to give his name.
   Said another well-dressed man heading into the club: ``If men
want to get together and have a club, what's wrong with that?''
   The Supreme Court unanimously ruled that New York City's Local
Law 63 is constitutional. The 1984 law bans discrimination in clubs
that have more than 400 members, provide regular meal service and
rent their facilities to non-members for private functions.
   In Boston, the last bastions of single-sex socializing have a
month to decide to fight or switch in light of the ruling, said
Licensing Board Chairwoman Andrea Gargiulo.
   She said the Somerset Club and Tavern Club for men and the
Chilton Club for women must decide to comply with the city's
policy, or a public hearing will be held to determine whether any
club should be exempted.
   New York had targeted four clubs for refusing to comply: the
Century Association, the New York Athletic Club, the Union League
Club ed a
covert intelligence operation in England using a Palestinian double
agent. British prosecutors said the agent, Ismail Hassan Sowan, 28,
spied on a Palestine Liberation Organization member wanted in
connection with terrorist acts, including the killing in London of
Arab cartoonist Ali Naji Awad Al-Adhami.
   The Mossad carried out the operation without informing British
authorities of its activities or that the wanted man, Abder Rahmane
Mustapha, was living in Britain.
   A British court Thursday sentenced Sowan to 11 years in prison
for possessing explosives and firearms, which he kept for Mustapha
at his home in the central English city of Hull.
   Prosecutors also accused the double agent of spying for Israel
and the PLO. The British indicated they had not been fully briefed
about Sowan's connection to the Mossad.
   ``The discovery of an Israeli double agent in a PLO hit squad
was apparently the straw that broke the camel's back,''
editorialized the daily Haaretz, referring to mounting British
displeasure over other Mossad activities in Britain.
   But Foreign Minister Shimon Peres stressed that the Mossad did
not carry out operations on British soil that were harmful to
British interests.
   ``We are not seeking any British targets in Britain. In all the
world, we are trying to prevent attacks on Israelis,'' Peres told
Israel radio.
   ``I think both governments are interested in not shaking
relations,'' he said.
   A Foreign Ministry official, who spoke on condition of
anonymity, said Israel has ruled out the expulsion of a British
diplomat from Israel in retaliation for the British action.
   ``London's response was excessive in light of Israel's friendly
relations with Britain and the knowledge that the double agent's
activity had been directed not against Britain but against the
terror squad that commited an act of murder in Britain,'' Haaretz
said.
   In London, a television program said Monday that Prime Minister
Margaret Thatcher had secretly warned the Israeli government in
October to restrain its secret agents in Britain or risk their
expulsion.
   ``We made our profound concern known to the Israeli government
last autumn'' at a ``fairly high level,'' said a spokesmen for Mrs.
Thatcher's office.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0138 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1632EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u a AM-ScoutDrowning Bjt   06-20 0919</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Scout Drowning, Bjt,0941</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Tragedy Strikes Two City Kids on First Scouting Trip</HEAD>
<HEAD>LaserPhoto Upcoming</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By MITCHELL LANDSBERG</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   They were city kids on their first Cub Scout
camping trip. And when they came across a lake on a hot summer day,
they did what kids will do _ they jumped in.
   First one boy drowned, and then another, and no one seems to
know exactly how or why.
   Did Joel Nieves dive into Lake Ohrbach in grief after the body
of his friend, Luis Ruiz, was pulled from the bottom? Or did the
two 9-year-old Brooklyn boys drown together?
   ``We're in the process now of ascertaining that specific
information,'' said Deputy Inspector William Wallace, the detective
in charge of the case, as an investigation into the weekend deaths
continued Monday.
   Joel and Luis were both members of Cub Scout Pack 74, which is
affiliated with St. Paul's Lutheran Church in the Williamsburg
section of Brooklyn. With 16 other boys, they had gone to Camp
Pouch, a 130-acre oasis of woodland on Staten Island, on Friday
night for their first weekend camp out.
   They were less than 10 miles from home, just over the
Verrazano-Narrows Bridge from Brooklyn, but a world apart.
   ``They were going to make a nice weekend of it, and they had the
best of intentions,'' Bob Williams, a spokesman for the Boy Scouts
of America, said of the Cub pack's adult leaders. ``They were doing
what we want them to do _ take the kids to camp, let them sleep
outside, see the stars, the whole thing.''
   The leaders were warned by the camp director, both verbally and
in writing, that the lake was off-limits for swimming, Williams
said. The lake is open only later in the summer, when there is
full-time supervision.
   But Saturday grew hot _ it was 85 degrees that afternoon _ and
the Cub leaders apparently decided to let the boys wade into the
water. ``What could go wrong when you're wading, right?'' said
Williams.
   But things went very wrong.
   First Luis was seen slipping beneath the surface. There were
frantic efforts to rescue him, culminating when a nearby Boy Scout
troop formed a human chain and methodically combed through the
water.
   About 15 minutes after Luis had vanished, he was found, about 20
feet offshore and eight feet underwater, lying in the mud on the
bottom of the lake. He was taken to Staten Island Hospital, where
he died Sunday evening.
   About an hour after Luis was found, the Cub leaders discovered
Joel was missing. One Boy Scout _ 17-year-old Raymond Goffin, who
had pulled Luis from the water _ said he had observed Joel sitting
on the shore, looking distressed and saying, ``I was supposed to go
down to the bottom with him.''
   Another person _ a woman who was with the Cub pack _ said she
saw the boy running up a trail away from the lake, according to
Williams. A search of the campground ensued, but it was not until
Sunday morning that anyone looked in the lake.
   At 9:40 a.m., Police Department scuba divers found Joel's body
there, not far from where his friend had been found.
   Joel Nieves, the son of a leader in Brooklyn's Hispanic
community, was to have received an award for excellence at Public
School 19 on Monday. Instead, it was to be accepted posthumously by
friends.
   ``He could have been a future leader of our community _ a
lawyer, a teacher, a public official,'' said David Santiago, who
works with Joel's father, Saul Nieves, at a community group, Casa
del Barrio. ``He was a very disciplined kid, a very astute kid. ...
I was very impressed by the level of sensitivity that Joel had.''
   Santiago said he doubted the Boy Scouts' version of events _
that Joel had jumped into the lake after Luis was pulled out. He
criticized the Police Department for not sending scuba divers into
the lake immediately.
   Wallace, the police detective, said he still didn't know what
happened, but that four witnesses so far had told authorities that
they saw Joel out of the water after Luis was found.
   He wouldn't rule out the possibility of criminal charges against
one of the adults who allowed the youths into the water, but that
didn't appear likely. ``We're going further with the investigation
only to ... ascertain exactly what occurred,'' Wallace said.
   Williams, the Boy Scout spokesman, placed the blame squarely on
the Cub Scout leaders. ``While we understand that kids are kids,
that's why we have adult leadership,'' he said. ``The adults are
supposed to follow the rules and regulations. I think that's where
this one went wrong.''
   But he said the Scouts wouldn't take any action against the pack
leaders.
   ``We're very sorry that it happened. Our hearts go out to the
parents; our hearts go out to everybody involved,'' Williams said.
``The individual who's responsible, he's got to live with this for
the rest of his life.''
   None of the scout leaders could be reached for comment. There
was no answer at St. Paul's Lutheran Church, where the pack has its
headquarters, and neither the Boy Scouts nor the police would give
out the leaders' names.
   However, in an interview with The New York Times, Felix Gomez,
who was identified as an assistant cubmaster, said that another,
unnamed assistant had allowed the boys to go into the water. Gomez
said he had forbidden the scouts from swimming or fishing.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0139 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1837EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i AM-PuertoRico-Bomb     06-20 0460</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Puerto Rico-Bomb,0476</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>American Killed, Second Man Injured In Bomb Blast in Car</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By FRANK GAUD</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>MAYAGUEZ, Puerto Rico (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A bomb blew up in a car Monday and
killed an American who apparently was putting the explosive
together, officials said. A second man was seriously injured,
police and the FBI said.
   The explosion occurred about 1:40 a.m. in the Balboa sector of
Mayaguez, about 100 miles west of San Juan.
   The dead man was identified as Jeff Parker, an American believed
to be a resident of Miami. Injured was Antonio Alfredo Gonzalez
Olmeda, a Cuban also believed to live in Miami.
   Parker's body was found inside the small car. Gonzalez Olmeda
was standing beside the car when the bomb went off, police said.
   Gonzalez Olmeda underwent surgery at the Rio Piedras Medical
Center for serious injuries in the face and upper body.
   Police Capt. Ramon Ortiz, chief of the Criminal Investigations
Corps in the western region of Puerto Rico, said police were
questioning about 25 people in the case.
   Harry B. Brandon, special agent in charge of the San Juan office
of the FBI, said the bureau joined the Puerto Rican Police
Department in the investigation of the explosion and the two men
involved. He refused to give more details.
   Authorities said they didn't know where the bomb was to have
been placed or if Parker and Gonzalez Olmeda were hired in the
United States to plant the bomb in Puerto Rico.
   Police explosives expert Jesus Garcia said fragments of the bomb
were sent to the police laboratory in San Juan for analysis.
   The explosive was not encased in a receptacle, which led him to
conclude Parker was in the process of putting it together when it
exploded in his lap, Garcia said.
   In the trunk of the car, police said they found a briefcase
containing documents indicating the car was rented and airline
tickets for a Monday afternoon flight to Miami. Officials said they
also found an Immigration and Naturalization Service card and a
driver's license, both issued to Gonzalez Olmeda.
   The briefcase also contained a digital remote control detonator,
police said.
   Mayaguez District Attorney Eric Velazquez said charges would be
filed against Gonzalez Olmeda, but he did not specify what he would
be charged with.
   Parker and Gonzalez Olmeda, both about 25 years old, were
staying at Perichi's, a small tourist hotel in the Joyuda sector of
Cabo Rojo, about 45 minutes south of Mayaguez.
   They had registered at Perichi's Friday. Both men spoke Spanish
and, according to hotel employees, said they were lobster fishermen
on vacation.
   Dr. Juan Angel Nazario, director of the Medical Center's
emergency room, said Gonzalez Olmeda may lose one eye and not
regain sight in the other.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0140 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1837EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a AM-NavyDeath     06-20 0580</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Navy Death,0597</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Rescue Swimmer School Reopens</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By BILL KACZOR</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>PENSACOLA, Fla. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The Navy's Rescue Swimmer School reopened
Monday but its curriculum no longer includes the ``sharks and
daisies'' rescue drill that was in progress when a panicking
recruit died, officials said.
   The school at the Pensacola Naval Air Station was closed shortly
after the March 2 death of Airman Recruit Lee Mirecki, 19, of
Appleton, Wis.
   Five instructors have been charged with involuntary manslaughter
and conspiracy to commit battery for allegedly forcing Mirecki back
into a swimming pool after he asked to quit in the midst of the
``sharks and daisies'' drill. The officer in charge of the school
is accused of dereliction of duty.
   All six face possible court-martial and they have been relieved
of duty pending action on their cases and replaced at the school,
officials said.
   ``I can tell you the `sharks and daisies' exercise is not in the
new curriculum,'' said Lt. Cmdr. Dennis Hessler, public affairs
officer for the Naval Education and Training Command headquartered
in Pensacola.
   In that drill, instructors randomly grabbed students in
head-holds to simulate people panicking in the water. A student was
supposed to pull his instructor underwater to break the hold and
then make the rescue.
   ``Instructors will not personally participate in practical
application drills'' under the revised procedures, said Lt. Lee
Saunders, a spokesman for the Naval Air Training Command in Corpus
Christi, Texas.
   Instead, students will practice the drills on each other.
   The Navy charged that after Mirecki failed once in the exercise,
Petty Officer 2nd Class Michael Combe held his head underwater when
the drill was resumed.
   During an investigative hearing two weeks ago, there was
conflicting testimony on whether Mirecki collapsed while in Combe's
grip.
   Some instructors and a student testified Mirecki had
successfully broken Combe's grip and had the instructor in tow.
   Instructors had testified that pulling tired, scared or
malingering students into the pool or off of its walls was a common
procedure at the school.
   A Navy pathologist testified that Mirecki had a phobia about
being dragged under water, which triggered heart failure followed
by drowning. He died when allegedly shoved back into the pool after
he had climbed out and declared his intent to ``D-O-R'' or ``drop
on request'' from the school.
   New procedures explicitly require that a student be pulled out
of an exercise immediately if he asks to quit, is fatiqued or shows
signs of fear, panic or lack of confidence, Navy spokesmen said.
   ``They made it quite clear what the safety and drop on request
procedures are,'' Hessler said. ``Students may voluntarily drop on
request at any time.''
   Hearing testimony indicated safety procedures were, at best,
unclear. The revised curriculum requires that four staffers be
posted on the pool deck as safety observers at all times and that
one of them must be the officer in charge or a chief petty officer.
The school has one officer and two chief petty officers.
   The school was allowed to reopen only after the procedural
changes were approved by Adm. Carlisle Trost, chief of naval
operations.
   The first day's training was limited to dry land activity with
initial classes in the pool beginning Tuesday, Hessler said.
   Rear Adm. David R. Morris, chief of naval air training,
headquartered in Corpus Christi, Texas, is expected to make a
decision on whether the accused should be court-martialed, given
non-judicial punishment or cleared of the charges by July 1.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0141 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1924EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r w AM-Africa-Talks     06-20 0265</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Africa-Talks,240</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>US Praises Egypt For Hosting New Round of Negotiations</HEAD>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The State Department on Monday welcomed as a
``statesmanlike initiative'' Egypt's offer to host in Cairo this
weekend a new round of negotiations on a regional settlement of the
Angolan and Namibian problems in southern Africa.
   The talks ``involving Namibian (South-West African) independence
and the departure of all foreign forces from Angola and Namibia
will take place in Cairo'' Friday through Sunday, ``and will
continue the effort begun at the May 3-4 meeting in London,'' said
department spokeswoman Phyllis Oakley.
   As in London, delegations from South Africa, Angola, Cuba, and
the United States will participate at Cairo, and all have accepted,
she said. The U.S. delegation will be headed by Assistant Secretary
of State Chester A. Crocker.
   ``We greatly appreciate the statesmanlike initiative of the
government of Egypt in hosting this round of negotiations,'' Mrs.
Oakley told reporters. ``Acceptance of the government of Egypt's
invitation by all parties attests to Egypt's stature as a founding
member of the Organization of African Unity and a consistent
supporter of the peaceful resolution of African problems.''
   Mrs. Oakley said the talks already have ``elicited growing
African diplomatic support,'' and they take place ``against the
backdrop of intensified allied and US-Soviet consultations on
southern Africa.''
   Jonas Savimbi, leader of the anti-communist Angolan guerrillas
backed by the United States, will not be represented at Cairo, she
said. The question of how South Africa, which has no diplomatic
relations with Egypt, could participate in talks at Cairo should be
referred to the Egyptian government, she said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0142 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1929EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a AM-FloridaEnglish     06-20 0336</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Florida English,0344</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>English Only Opposition Group Goes on the Offensive</HEAD>
<DATELINE>MIAMI (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A campaign is being launched this week against a
Florida constitutional amendment which would make English the
state's official language.
   English Plus will air radio spots and sponsor speakers around
the state to deliver the message than an English-only law is
discriminatory and could cripple business and tourism in a state
with strong ties to Latin America.
   ``The immediate impact, even if nothing else happens, is to make
us look like a redneck state,'' said Ambler Moss, a committee
member and former ambassador to Panama who now works at the
University of Miami.
   Advocates of the constitutional amendment appear to have
sufficient signatures to put the issue on the ballot. The law,
aimed largely at Florida's growing Spanish-speaking community,
would prohibit state and local governments from using languages
other than English in conducting public business.
   English Plus, composed of community and bussiness leaders,
counters that the law would make it impossible for state and local
government to promote Florida in Latin America, besides sending a
message to foreign businessmen and tourists that they are not
welcome.
   ``The issue goes to the very heart of what Florida is all
about,'' said English Plus chairman Osvald Soto.
   Other English Plus supporters include the Greater Miami Chamber
of Commerce, which has made defeat of the amendment a top priority,
Harvard-educated lawyer Jon Weber, and the Hispanic coalition
Unidos.
   Supporters say the amendment is necessary, and claim it would
even help foreigners by forcing them to learn English.
   Opponents largely agree that immigrants who come to this country
need to learn English, but don't think the amendment would
accomplish that. Mark Gallegos, president-elect of the Hispanic
National Bar Association and a spokesman for several national Latin
interest groups, said supporters are masking their true purpose.
   ``If it passes, not one single person will learn English because
of it,'' he said. ``It's merely a statement of false nationalism.
It's a reflection of underlying bigotry and xenophobia.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0143 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1929EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a AM-HayHotline     06-20 0361</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Hay Hotline,0370</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>State Sets Up Hay Hotline As Farmers Scramble for Feed</HEAD>
<HEAD>With AM-Drought Rdp Rdp</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By DOUG FISHER</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>DAYTON, Ohio (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A ``hay hotline'' has been set up for
farmers seeking fodder from as far west as Kansas to feed their
cattle in the face of the grass-wilting drought, Ohio officials
said Monday.
   ``We've been sending word out across the state and anywhere else
that would listen that we need hay,'' said Marion E. Freeman,
cooperative extension agent in Mercer County in west central Ohio.
   Mercer County usually is Ohio's top-income agricultural county
and is one of the centers of the state's dairy industry.
   Freeman said he asked the Agriculture Department last week to
handle calls from both farmers who badly need hay and those who may
have some to sell.
   ``I told him we'd be willing to do it,'' said Alice Walters,
spokeswoman for the Agriculture Department.
   ``We did this two years ago with the haylift (to the South). So
we're not new at this,'' she said.
   Two years ago, Mercer County sent 12 boxcars of hay to parched
Southern farms, ``but they're in the same situation we are'' and
farmers realize they can't expect much help from their Southern
brethren, Freeman said.
   Farmers have been lining up hay in Michigan, Pennsylvania and
Kansas, ``but those supplies are drying up, too,'' he said.
   Michael Broering, who has a 70-head dairy herd near Maria Stein,
was on the phone most of the morning lining up hay. He said a
friend in Pennsylvania had contacts who could provide 3,000 bales,
about a five-month supply, for a reasonable $85 a ton. Some of the
western hay is as high as $150 a ton, Broering said.
   ``I guess now is the time you call in all your friends,'' he
said.
   Broering said his first cutting of hay produced only 20 percent
of normal and the second cutting this month probably will produce
less. Two more weeks of little rain, and farmers will be forced to
buy feed to cover their needs through next April, he said.
   He is beginning to sell some of his registered Holstein cows.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0144 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1651EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u i AM-Summit-Nancy     06-20 0545</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Summit-Nancy,560</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>With AM-Summit Rdp Bjt</HEAD>
<HEAD>Nancy Asks Children to Read: `You'll Always Have a Friend'</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By SALLY JACOBSEN</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>TORONTO (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   First lady Nancy Reagan on Monday encouraged
young children to develop a love for books, advising them that
``you'll never be lonely if you read.''
   Mrs. Reagan joined the wives of four other world leaders
attending the annual economic summit of industrialized nations in
making a pitch for reading to 150 children from five schools in
downtown Toronto.
   The children, ranging in age from 8 to 11, listened intently as
Mila Mulroney, wife of Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney, read
about a mischievous cat named Josephine who disrupted school one
day.
   Five children who accompanied Mrs. Reagan and the other wives
took turns reading from ``Can You Catch Josephine?'' The book was
written by Stephane Poulin, a 24-year-old author from Montreal,
Canada.
   After finishing the tale, the children shyly asked the wives in
their native language a question.
   Gina Lin, 8, a third-grader at Lord Lansdowne School, asked Mrs.
Reagan what type of books she preferred.
   ``I read every kind of book,'' the first lady told the child.
   ``I read a lot,'' she said. ``My husband reads a lot. Our
children read a lot ever since they were very young. ...''
   ``If you learn to read when you're young,'' Mrs. Reagan
counseled, ``as you get older, you know that you'll never be lonely
if you read. You'll always have a friend there. There's always
something to do.''
   Anna Maria De Mita, wife of Italian Prime Minister Ciriaco De
Mita, explained how she would tell stories to her children in the
morning and evening.
   Her evening stories, she said, were sweet stories that would
leave the children with pleasant dreams.
   Morning stories, she related, were designed to stimulate the
imagination and make the day more interesting.
   Not only children like stories, she said. ``I do too.''
   Hannelore Kohl, wife of West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl, told
the children that the story of Hansel and Gretel differed in
English and in German.
   ``Our version is a better one,'' she said, because the wicked
witch is roasted.
   Mrs. Mulroney, fluent in English and French, said, ``Every time
we read a book we can become whomever we like to be. We can become
the heroine or we can become the ogre.''
   John O'Leary, program director at Frontier College and moderator
of the reading, told the wives and children, ``In the midst of all
our busy lives ... we're coming together to sit still for a moment
to focus our attention, to listen together to hear a story.''
   ``Stories,'' he said, ``are wonderful things, wonderful ways of
uniting all of us.''
   Frontier College promotes educational opportunities and literacy
programs.
   The reading took place in a white tent on the harbor along Lake
Ontario. The children and the wives sat on low benches in front of
brightly colored posters promoting books.
   The children received a book and a bright yellow T-shirt that
said, ``Read, Avoid Extinction.'' Several dinosaurs decorated the
shirts.
   Before the wives arrived, he added a touch of humor to the
event. He asked the children, ``Would you rather read a book or
watch TV?''
   The reply, shouted in unison, was: ``Watch TV.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0145 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1656EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u w AM-Scotus-Catholics     06-20 0594</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Scotus-Catholics,580</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Court Overturns Contempt Citation Against Catholic Church</HEAD>
<HEAD>With AM-Scotus Rdp Bjt</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By JAMES H. RUBIN</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The Supreme Court on Monday saved the Roman
Catholic Church, at least temporarily, from having to pay $100,000
a day in court fines for withholding documents in a lawsuit by a
group supporting abortion rights.
   The justices, voting 8-1, overturned a contempt citation against
the church stemming from a lawsuit challenging the church's
tax-exempt status.
   The justices sent the case back to the lower courts to determine
whether Abortion Rights Mobilization Inc. has legal standing to sue
the federal government to revoke the church's tax exemption because
of its anti-abortion lobbying.
   The suit by the pro-choice group is against the government, not
the church, and the underlying issue is whether private citizens
have the legal power to challenge a tax exemption granted by the
government.
   Writing for the court Monday, Justice Anthony M. Kennedy said
the 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals must determine whether the
federal courts even have the authority to decide the underlying
issue.
   Kennedy said if the 2nd Circuit court decides the federal judge
who issued the contempt holding lacks proper jurisdiction, the
church is under no obligation to provide its records and may not be
held in contempt.
   A ruling that the abortion rights group does not have the power
to sue could kill the suit effectively.
   Lawrence Lader, president of the pro-choice group, said, ``We
feel this is simply delaying going to trial. The gods are not
favoring going to trial.''
   But Lader said he expected the lower courts would permit the
suit to proceed.
   Monsignor Daniel F. Hoye, general secretary of the National
Conference of Catholic Bishops and the U.S. Catholic Conference,
hailed the high court ruling.
   ``The action of the court gives the bishops some measure of
justice and vindicates their action in appealing to the Supreme
Court,'' he said.
   He said he hoped a federal appeals court ``will now reconsider
its earlier ruling and uphold the right of churches and other
tax-exempt organizations to participate in public debate and other
controversial issues free of retaliatory litigation brought by
their political opponents.''
   Beverly LaHaye, head of the conservative Concerned Women for
America, said the high court ruling ``is truly a victory for all
Americans and for the First Amendment in general.''
   She said the decision allows tax-exempt organizations ``to
challenge the legal basis of frivolous lawsuits against them''
without facing stiff fines.
   Abortion Rights Mobilization says in its eight-year-old suit
that the church's tax-exempt status gives it an unfair advantage in
the political battle over abortion rights.
   It said tax breaks for the church violate a provision of the
federal tax code barring any tax-exempt organization from spending
money on political activities.
   The Supreme Court was asked to decide whether the suit against
the government can go forward, not whether the church's tax
exemption should be revoked.
   The 2nd Circuit last year upheld a 1986 ruling by a federal
judge in New York City who found the church in civil contempt for
refusing to supply its records to the pro-choice coalition.
   The judge ordered the church to pay $100,000 a day until it
supplied the documents. The contempt ruling had been put on hold
pending a high court decision.
   The justices ruled Monday that the church, although a witness
rather than one of the opposing sides in the lawsuit, still had the
right to appeal the contempt citation prior to the outcome of the
suit.
   Justice Thurgood Marshall was the lone dissenter.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0146 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1931EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i AM-Summit-SouthAfrica 380   06-20 0376</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Summit-South Africa, 380</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Leaders Urge Clemency For Sharpeville Six</HEAD>
<DATELINE>TORONTO (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The leaders of the seven-nation economic summit
on Monday said ``all legal options available'' should be used to
secure clemency for six black South Africans who have been
condemned to death.
   In a statement read to reporters by Canadian Foreign Minister
Joe Clark, the seven leaders also said that recent moves by the
white-led government to stop anti-apartheid groups from receiving
funds from foreign sources ``would place severe strain on the
relations each of us has with South Africa.''
   The statement on South Africa, issued separately from a
political communique, also urged an end to the civil war in Angola
and called on South Africa to implement long-standing United
Nations resolutions designed to grant independendce to Nabmibia, or
South-West Africa.
   The South African blacks, known as the Sharpville Six, were
convicted of complicity in the 1984 mob killing in Sharpeville
township of a black town councillor during riots provoked by a rent
increase.
   There has been an international campaign seeking clemency for
the six _ five men and a woman _ who have been sentenced to hang.
President P.W. Botha has rejected a clemency petition.
   The six were not convicted of directly killing the councillor,
but found guilty under the doctrine of common purpose, which held
them responsible because they actively participated in the mob
which killed him.
   The statement omitted any reference to the most contentious
issue, the impositon of sanctions against South Africa by the
wealthy western nations.
   British Prime Minisiter Margaret Thatcher, whose country is a
major trading partner with South Africa, and other European nations
have refused to implement such tough measures.
   Canada, the summit host, which has scant links with South
Africa, has for years beens sharply critical of the British
attitude.
   A British spokesman said, ``We have no problems with this
statement at all.''
   ``We declare our our abhorrence of apartheid, which must be
replaced through a process of genuine national negotiations by a
nonracial democracy,'' said the summit statement.
   The leaders said they also ``express our urgent opinion'' on the
other issues, including the Sharpeville Six.
   ``All legal options available in South Africa should be used to
secure clemency for the Sharpeville Six,'' they said.

</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0147 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1935EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i AM-Olympics     06-20 0200</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Olympics,0207</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Roh Orders Emergency Government Setup to Ensure Safety of Olympics</HEAD>
<DATELINE>SEOUL, South Korea (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   President Roh Tae-woo on Monday
ordered all government systems to be turned into an ``emergency
setup'' to help safeguard the Seoul Olympics.
   ``We should make all out efforts to ensure the safety of the
Olympics, and all government systems should be turned into an
emergency setup to that end,'' Roh told senior aides.
   ``The safety of the Seoul Olympics is our paramount national
task and the future of the nation hinges on it,'' he said.
   The president warned that anti-government and anti-South Korea
ideological groups are bent on disrupting the Sept. 17-Oct.2
Olympics.
   Roh did not say what he meant by the ``emergency setup,'' but
aides said it would make government officials work against possible
terrorist attacks on the Olympics.
   The government plans to mobilize 120,000 specially trained
guards to protect the Olympics. The United States also will deploy
Navy and Air Force units around the Korean peninsula.
   North Korea has said it will boycott the Olympics unless it can
be a co-host.
   A record 12,000 athletes from 161 nations, including the Soviet
Union and other communist countries, are expected to compete.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0148 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1936EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i AM-NuclearZones     06-20 0334</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Nuclear Zones,0346</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Honecker Suggests East-West Hotline To Avert Possible Crises</HEAD>
<DATELINE>BERLIN (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   East German leader Erich Honecker told a nuclear
disarmament conference Monday that Eastern and Western Europe
should establish ways to keep in constant touch to avert possible
military crises, and suggested a hotline.
   Honecker called for ``mechanisms for the peaceful discussion of
crises and for the prevention of military incidents.''
   ``For example, perhaps there could be a hotline between Prague,
Berlin and Bonn,'' Honecker said.
   Delegates from 110 countries are attending the three-day
conference in East Berlin that began Monday.
   Among the delegates are U.S. peace activists, West German
politicians, officials from the Warsaw Pact, Palestine Liberation
Organization leader Yassir Arafat, and Chedli Klibi,
general-secretary of the Arab League.
   Honecker has been a strong proponent of a European nuclear
weapons-free zone, and arranged the conference. He said in his
opening address that such a zone would ``lessen the military
confrontation in Europe.''
   But many NATO leaders including West German Chancellor Helmut
Kohl reject the idea, saying Western Europe would still be
endangered by Warsaw Pact troops outside such a corridor and by
Soviet nuclear forces.
   West Germany's conservative Christian Democratic Union and
Christian Social Union parties, coalition partners in the federal
government, turned down invitations to the conference.
   But invitations were accepted by the Free Democrats, junior
partners in the coalition, and by West Germany's opposition Social
Democrats and Greens parties.
   Piotr Demichev, Soviet Communist Party Politburo candidate and
the Kremlin's representative at the East Berlin meeting, read a
letter from Soviet leader Mikhail S. Gorbachev addressed to the
conference.
   Quoting Gorbachev, Demichev said the Soviet Union fully supports
setting up a nuclear-free zone in central Europe.
   ``The Soviet Union is ready ... to give up its status as a
nuclear power as soon as possible,'' Demichev said.
   ``But as long as we have this status, we are ready for radical
reductions and its practical forms. This includes support for
establishing nuclear-free zones,'' Demichev said, reading from
Gorbachev's letter.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0149 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1938EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r w AM-Superfund     06-20 0699</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Superfund,690</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Cleanups Allowing Divergent Pollution Levels To Remain</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By GUY DARST</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   ``Superfund'' toxic dump cleanups by the
Environmental Protection Agency are permitting widely divergent
concentrations of contaminants to remain in the ground, a trade
group and six environmental organizations told Congress Monday.
   ``There is no justification for creating these discrepancies,''
they said.
   EPA, however, argued in testimony before the investigations
subcommittee of the House Energy and Commerce Committee that
differing residual contamination did not mean that some cleanups
failed to protect public health and the environment.
   J. Winston Porter, assistant administrator in charge of
Superfund, said, ``You've got to look at the facts on the ground.''
   Though regional offices make most decisions, Porter himself is
in charge of three dioxin cleanups, ``And I'll be using different
action levels at all three,'' he said.
   For example, at Love Canal in New York, contamination could
reach fish in the Niagara River, something not an issue at the
other sites, and the cleanup there will try to guard against that,
he said.
   Rep. Dennis Eckart, D-Ohio, chairing the hearing, told Porter,
``Folks don't understand that you are leaving them a cleanup that
is equally protective'' when contamination differs. ``Maybe science
will tell us that they are (equally protective), but our
constituents aren't.''
   The report examining all Superfund cleanup decisions of the 1987
fiscal year was compiled by the Hazardous Waste Treatment Council,
a group of firms offering waste treatment, and the Environmental
Defense Fund, the National Audubon Society, the National Wildlife
Federation, the Natural Resources Defense Council, the Sierra Club
and the U.S. Public Interest Research Group.
   Much of it paralleled findings last week by the congressional
Office of Technology Assessment that EPA is largely ignoring the
mandate of 1986 amendments requiring it to prefer permanent
cleanups that treat the waste _ destroying it _ reducing its volume
or stabilizing it, rather than simply confining it in the ground.
   ``We learn from the Schmaltz Dump (at Harrison), Wis. Record of
Decision that soil lead concentrations greater than 14 parts per
million pose an unacceptable lifetime risk from direct contact. The
Rose Township, Mich., site set a level for lead in soil that is
five times higher than at Schmaltz,'' and two New Jersey cleanups
permit 100 ppm, the Cooper Road site in Voorhees Township and the
Williams Property at Swainton, the report said in one example.
   The difference results from inconsistent exposure assumptions,
the report said. For example, at Schmaltz Dump, EPA assumed
children would consume an average of one gram of dirt per day; at
Rose Township, EPA assumed children would have no access to the
soil.
   ``Why should citizens not believe that with these widely varying
cleanup goals that EPA is using the practical equivalent of a dart
board?'' said Blake Early, Sierra Club representative.
   Walter Kovalik, deputy director of the Superfund office, said
EPA expects to promulgate by the end of the year uniform standards
for regional offices to use in calculating exposures to
contaminants.
   Asked by Eckart whether capping waste in the ground could be a
permanent remedy, Porter replied, ``I think it can be.''
   Even though the agency's use of treatment and destruction
cleanups is increasing, he said, ``We simply have some sites where,
like it or not, there isn't enough money in the world to dig up all
that material and burn it.''
   ``The real question is, are we going to spread that money over a
lot of sites, which is what we thought Congress intended, or are we
going to spend it all on a few sites?'' Porter said.
   EPA appeared to be supported against the major criticisms of the
Office of Technology Assessment and the environmental groups by
Clean Sites Inc., the industry-backed private group that arranges
private cleanups.
   Thomas Grumbly, president of Clean Sites, said, ``It would be a
mistake ... to jump immediately to the conclusion that the EPA is
not doing its job.''
   Grumbly said the most important Superfund problems stem from the
facts that ``cost-recovery actions and suits against recalcitrant
non-settlers at sites have been minimal,'' and the agency has
rarely used ``combined funding'' where both it and polluters
contribute to cleanups.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0150 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1939EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a AM-ChicagoLibrary     06-20 0272</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Chicago Library,0280</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Design Chosen For Harold Washington Libary Center</HEAD>
<HEAD>LaserFoto CX3</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By ELIZABETH SHOGREN</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>CHICAGO (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The city forged ahead in its long-delayed quest
to build a new $140 million central library when a design for the
building was chosen Monday from among five proposed plans.
   ``We're one step closer to the library's completion,'' Mayor
Eugene Sawyer said as officials announced the selection of a design
for the proposed Harold Washington Library Center. ``There's a
light at the end of the tunnel and it's the light of learning.''
   The Sebus group submitted the design selected from the five
teams of architects, developers and builders whose proposals were
considered for the project that city officials have debated since
1976.
   ``Our main concern was building a first-class building within
the historic context,'' said Thomas Beeby, the head architect for
the Sebus group.
   The library's interior will feature international television
programs picked up by satellite, a 400-seat theater and a 2.3
million volume book collection.
   The city's Library Board still must vote on whether to build the
new library.
   The new 700,000-square-foot library would cost $140 million to
build and is scheduled to be completed in 1991.
   The bulk of the central library's collection has been kept in a
warehouse since 1974, when it was moved from a central library
building built in 1897. The building built in 1897 replaced a
library destroyed in the great Chicago fire of 1871, but the
replacement was deemed inadequate within two decades.
   The library will be named for the city's first black mayor.
Washington died late last year of a heart attack.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0151 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1941EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r w AM-KingHonored     06-20 0229</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-King Honored,230</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>House Passes Bill To Rename Federal Annex in Atlanta After King</HEAD>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The House approved legislation Monday to
rename a newly renovated federal building in Atlanta in honor of
Martin Luther King Jr., the civil rights leader who was
assassinated 20 years ago.
   The bill, sponsored by Rep. John Lewis, D-Ga., was approved by a
voice vote in the House. It now goes to the Senate, where favorable
action would make the federal annex the first federal building in
the nation to bear King's name.
   Lewis said he does not anticipate any problem in winning Senate
approval. He said he hopes to arrange a ceremony in late summer or
early fall to officially rename the building in honor of King, who
was slain in Memphis, Tenn., in April 1968.
   The annex, which housed a post office before a $10 million
renovation that began three years ago, will be the Atlanta
headquarters for the FBI, which waged a lengthy campaign to
discredit King during the 1960s civil rights movement.
   The FBI is one of several federal agencies scheduled to move
into the annex this month. Between 1,400 and 1,600 federal
employees will be located there when the moves are completed.
   The annex, which was built in the mid-1930s, is located across
from the Richard B. Russell Federal Building near the center of
downtown Atlanta.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0152 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1943EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a AM-HaitiReax     06-20 0489</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Haiti Reax,0502</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Haitian Exiles Support Neither Manigat Nor Namphy</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By RICHARD COLE</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>MIAMI (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Most Haitians refugees support neither their
homeland's newly deposed president nor his military replacement,
and worry that violence and confusion will only further impoverish
the country, exile leaders said Monday.
   Lt. Gen. Henri Namphy declared himself president Monday, only
hours after his troops invaded the Haitian presidential palace in
Port-au-Prince and took civilian President Leslie Manigat into
custody.
   ``They imposed Manigat on us, they imposed Namphy,'' said the
Rev. Gerard Jean-Juste, head of the Haitian Refugee Center. ``This
is just one more intrigue between hard-core Duvalier supporters.''
   Namphy was president of the three-man junta that ruled Haiti for
two years after dictator Jean-Claude Duvalier fled to exile in
France in February 1986. The junta was disbanded after Manigat was
elected president in January.
   Manigat won his post in a January election that many Haitians
here felt was rigged, and which excluded all major opposition
figures. In the latest crisis Manigat formed an unsuccessful
alliance with Col. Jean-Claude Paul, who is under indictment in
Miami for drug trafficking and also was blamed for the violence
that aborted Haiti's first post-Duvalier presidential election in
November.
   Few in Miami's Haitian community, which may number up to
100,000, feel there is much difference between Manigat and Namphy.
   ``The people are sick and tired of the same names every day,''
said Fred St. Armand on a street in Little Haiti. ``There has to be
somebody new _ something has to be done.''
   Some, however, saw Manigat as the lesser of two evils, and
regret the coup.
   ``The military is messing up everything in Haiti. They have the
money, (but) they they had no patriotism,'' said Viter Juste, a
Haitian exile who lives in Miami. ``It is still better to keep
Manigat.''
   The coup ``means more than ever, the Duvalier regime is getting
back in power,'' Juste said.
   Jean-Juste said he and several other vocal Miami-area opponents
of the Haitian regime are on a death list drawn up by the remnants
of the dreaded tonton macoute, the Duvaliers' secret police. The
list was published in Haiti at the same time the group promised to
overthrow Manigat, he said.
   ``I take it seriously,'' said Jean-Juste. ``But we have many
people supporting us here in Miami.''
   Jean-Juste and many Haitian leaders blame the United States for
supporting the military despite its poor human rights record and
lack of respect for democracy.
   ``The fact is that the United States has armed the Haitian
military for so long, and it was the same military that shot
civilians who were trying to exercise their right to vote,'' said
Roger Biamby of the Haitian-American Community Association of Dade.
   ``The thing to do is to remove those military macoutes from
power so that the Haitian people can go about their business of
building democracy and the economy of the country,'' Biamby said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0153 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1732EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u a AM-Lyng-Drought     06-20 0332</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Lyng-Drought,0342</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Agriculture Secretary Says Farmers Face Drought Disaster</HEAD>
<HEAD>With AM-Drought Rdp Bjt</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By MARY FOSTER</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>NEW ORLEANS (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The drought withering crops in parts of the
nation won't mean hunger if it continues, but could mean disaster
for farmers and spiraling costs for consumers, Agriculture
Secretary Richard E. Lyng said Monday.
   Lyng said the worst threat to the agricultural economy is in the
Corn Belt, the Midwestern region where corn and corn-fed livestock
are raised. But problems also are looming for Southern soybean
growers.
   ``Corn is the most important crop in the United States. Soybeans
is second,'' Lyng said after a speech to the Institute of Food
Technologists convention. ``If those are lost who can say what it
will mean, it's never happened before.
   ``It won't mean hunger, not hunger. But the threat is severe.''
   Loss of corn and soybeans would lead farmers to start
liquidating their livestock, Lyng said, resulting in an immediate
decline in beef prices followed by a sharp rise.
   The effect on beef prices could last for years, he said.
   The drought could be devastating for farmers who made it through
a series of economic setbacks in recent years.
   ``There's no question things had been improving, but there were
still some difficulties,'' he said. ``Yes, it could be the telling
blow for some farmers.''
   ``We've done all we can at this time to help farmers with the
situation. Our next step will have to be to help those who have no
crops because of the drought,'' Lyng said. ``There will have to be
disaster declarations in some areas so we can get things like low
cost loans to people who need them.''
   On another matter, Lyng praised a trade agreement signed today
in Tokyo that will ease some Japanese restrictive quotas on
agricultural imports.
   ``Japan's beef imports will expand by $1 billion. Citrus imports
will double,'' Lyng said. ``The potential for the United States to
increase its exports to Japan is tremendous.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0154 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 2120EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>d a AM-BRF--MexicoCardinal     06-20 0100</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-BRF--Mexico Cardinal,0101</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Mexico's Cardinal in Stable Condition After Heart-Bypass Surgery</HEAD>
<DATELINE>JACKSONVILLE, Fla. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Mexico's Cardinal Ernesto Ahumada
Corripio was in stable condition Monday after undergoing
heart-bypass surgery, a hospital spokeswoman said.
   The 68-year-old cardinal, who entered St. Luke's Hospital on
June 7 and had the surgery last Wednesday, should be released in a
few days, said spokeswoman Kim Robinson.
   ``He's in very good condition,'' she said, adding that he has
been moved from an intensive care unit to a regular hospital room.
``He says in due time he will resume normal duties in the diocese
in Mexico.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0155 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1949EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a AM-ChainSawMurder     06-20 0333</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Chain Saw Murder,0343</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Defense Rests In Chain-Saw Murder Case</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By LINDA DEUTSCH</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>LOS ANGELES (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The defense rested in the chain-saw murder
trial of a former professor Monday after his sister testified he
was ``a sissy'' as a child and had little dexterity with tools.
   Max Bernard Franc, a former Fresno State University professor
charged in the murder and chain-saw dismemberment of a teen-age
prostitute, showed no reaction as his sister, Carol Waiters, told
jurors of Franc's childhood.
   ``Since he was a young child, he had a tendency to avoid any
kind of confrontation at all,'' she said. ``The neighborhood boys
used to taunt him. ... He was frightened of any physical contact
and he was considered a sissy.''
   Mrs. Waiters, a social worker from Philadelphia, said the same
tendencies persisted in his adulthood.
   She also said her brother wasn't good with tools.
   ``He's very clumsy when it comes to anything mechanical,'' she
said.
   Several of Franc's witness have stressed his clumsiness as
defense attorney Mark Kaiserman tried to show that the professor
was incapable of wielding a powerful chain saw to dismember the
body of Tracy Nute, an 18-year-old runaway from Kansas City, Mo.,
whose body was found in pieces scattered across 200 miles of
California.
   The prosecution contends that Franc murdered Nute and
dismembered the body to avoid detection.
   Franc, 58, a native of DePere, Wis., who taught public
administration at Fresno until his arrest last August, contends
that another man he named as Terry Adams shot Nute and chopped up
the body in Franc's apartment. But Adams has not been found.
   After resting his case, Kaiserman moved for dismissal of the
first-degree murder charge against Franc, saying that the
prosecution had failed to show evidence of premeditation.
   Deputy District Attorney Sterling Norris said Franc's purchase
of a gun before the killing is sufficient proof of premeditation as
was the nature of the killing itself.
   Superior Court Judge John Reid declined to dismiss the charge.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0156 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1951EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a AM-SuicideAssist     06-20 0375</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Suicide Assist,0386</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Man Charged With Helping Friend Commit Suicide</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By PAT MILTON</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>MANORVILLE, N.Y. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A man who twice saved his best friend
from trying to kill himself was in jail on manslaughter charges
Monday, accused of helping the man commit suicide on a third try.
   Thomas Petrillo, 25, told police that his friend, John Stockle,
29, was despondent over the break-up of his marriage and that
Petrillo agreed to help him end his life.
   ``He feels his friend is better off now,'' said Suffolk County
Assistant District Attorney John Collins, who videotaped Petrillo's
confession. ``He seems to have done it out of affection and
friendship. He has shown no remorse.''
   Petrillo told authorities Stockle was depressed and begged for
his help in committing suicide after the two shared a few beers
early Saturday.
   Stockle, an unemployed auto mechanic, wanted to hook up a
flexible pipe to his car exhaust to kill himself by carbon monoxide
poisoning but couldn't get the engine started, Petrillo told police.
   Petrillo, from Shirley on Long Island, said Stockle then asked
him to push his car to a wooded area about a mile away.
   Petrillo said he then connected the pipe to the exhaust of his
Jeep and placed the other end inside Stockle's Firebird.
   Petrillo let his motor idle while Stockle sat in his car,
Collins said.
   ``He said he then walked away, about 50 feet away, for about two
hours,'' said Collins. ``When he returned he broke a window in the
Firebird to make it look like he tried to rescue Stockle.''
   He then went to another friend's house and told him that Stockle
had killed himself. Police were called; Petrillo at first said he
accidentally found the body, but later confessed to assisting
Petrillo in the suicide, officers said.
   Petrillo, a swimming pool construction worker, had rescued
Stockle on two previous suicide attempts, the dead man's family
told police.
   New York state law specifically prohibits anyone from helping
someone commit suicide or attempt suicide.
   Petrillo has been arrested six times since 1980, including
arrests for rape and burglary, Collins said. He was placed on three
years probation for the burglary conviction; the disposition of the
rape case was not immediately available.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0157 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1952EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a AM-JazzConservatory     06-20 0247</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Jazz Conservatory,0252</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>World's First Exclusive Jazz Conservatory Dedicated At Duke</HEAD>
<DATELINE>DURHAM, N.C. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The Thelonious Monk Institute of Jazz, the
world's first music conservatory devoted exclusively to jazz, will
be built in Durham's growing downtown arts center, officials said
Monday.
   The institute, named for the Rocky Mount native and jazz
pioneer, will offer a practical and theoretical music curriculum
taught by leading jazz educators and musicians.
   Monk, who died in 1982, began his career as a pianist but also
became well known for his unique style as a band leader and as an
innovative jazz composer. Monk wrote approximately 70 musical
compositions and made hundreds of recordings that were released
worldwide.
   The new facility will ``create an educational, cultural and
performance-based environment for young developing jazz musicians
who will solidify and extend the philosophy and appreciation of
jazz music into the next century,'' said Thomas Carter, executive
director of the institute.
   Plans for the institute include a $12 million facility and dorm
and $50 million endowment, officials said. Television star Bill
Cosby is honorary chairman of the institute.
   The institute's affiliation with Duke University, which has been
modeled after the relationship between Duke and the American Dance
Festival, will benefit the university community through student
exchange programs the institute plans to develop, Duke President H.
Keith H. Brodie said.
   Programs offered by the institute are expected to include the
Thelonious Monk International Piano Competition, summer jazz
workshops and national high school jazz week events.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0158 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1954EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r w AM-Bowen-Malpractice     06-20 0174</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Bowen-Malpractice,170</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Malpractice Insurance Cost Cutting Maternal Care, HHS Chief Says</HEAD>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The soaring cost of medical malpractice
insurance is cutting into the availability of maternal health care,
especially in rural and inner-city areas, the nation's health chief
said Monday.
   ``With family physicians often the only ones to serve an area,
numerous counties or entire regions of some states report that they
have just one or two physicians to deliver babies,'' Health and
Human Services Secretary Otis R. Bowen told an Institute of
Medicine symposium.
   Bowen's remarks were based largely on an HHS task force report
on medical malpractice insurance issued last August.
   The independent Institute of Medicine is undertaking an 18-month
study on the effect of malpractice insurance issues on the delivery
of maternal and child health care.
   Bowen told the opening session of the symposium that the
American Academy of Family Physicians reported last year that 18.6
percent of its members have dropped their obstetrical practice due
to liability insurance cost problems or an inability to get
malpractice insurance.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0159 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1956EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r w AM-BRF--TobaccoOutlook     06-20 0132</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-BRF--Tobacco Outlook,130</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Cigarette Export Boom Cutting Stockpiles</HEAD>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A boom in cigarette exports is putting heavier
demands of U.S. tobacco supplies, a report by the Agriculture
Department said Monday.
   Total disappearance of tobacco in 1987-88 probably will be up
about 3 percent from last season, the department's Economic
Research Service said in its new outlook analysis.
   As a result, stockpiles of unmanufactured tobacco leaf may be
down 13 percent from last year's 3.33 billion pounds. The new
marketing year for flue-cured begins July 1, while the year for
burley and other kinds will start Oct. 1.
   ``Domestic leaf disappearance is increasing largely because U.S.
cigarette production is rising,'' the report said. ``This
production increase is the result of big gains in cigarette
exports; domestic cigarette consumption is declining.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0160 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1810EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u i AM-Summit-Science     06-20 0351</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Summit-Science,350</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Reagan, Takeshita Sign Agreement To Open Japanese Labs To US
Researchers</HEAD>
<HEAD>With AM-Summit Rdp Bjt</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By W. DALE NELSON</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>TORONTO (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   President Reagan and Prime Minister Noboru
Takeshita of Japan signed an agreement Monday to open up Japanese
laboratories to American researchers and limit publication of joint
research on technology with possible military uses.
   At a ceremony in the Royal York Hotel, where he is staying
during the seven-nation economic summit, Reagan reviewed the
relationship between the United States and Japan in science and
technology and said, ``Our hope is to strengthen the relationship
for peaceful purposes.''
   Takeshita said the agreement ``lifts our sights to the 1990s and
beyond.''
   ``The agreement is not exclusive,'' Takeshita said. ``It is open
to be shared by all the world.''
   The agreement was approved by the Japanese Cabinet on June 17
following 10 months of negotiations. Since it is an agreement, not
a treaty, it is not subject to ratification by the Senate.
   The five-year agreement replaces a pact that was temporarily
renewed five times since it expired in 1985.
   Because private industry accounts for 80 percent of the funds
Japan invests in research and development, compared with 50 percent
in the United States, the U.S. government has been pressing for
more access to the private laboratories where the bulk of Japanese
research takes place.
   Japan's agreement to restrict publication of sensitive material
on jointly developed technology was the outcome of criticism that
the Japanese government has been too lax in controlling exports of
sensitive technology to communist nations.
   In one case last year, U.S. officials disclosed that Toshiba
Machine Co., a subsdiary of the Japanese electronics maker Toshiba
Corp., had exported submarine-silencing equipment to the Soviet
Union.
   The pact is scheduled to take effect at the end of this month,
when the current three-month extension expires.
   Both countries also agree to protect intellectual rights and
determine rights to patents arising from joint research before the
start of laboratory work. The agreement also calls for the Tokyo
government to increase finding for scientists and engineers coming
to Japan.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0161 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 2010EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i AM-Gulf-PoolReport     06-20 0520</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Gulf-Pool Report,0533</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>American Couple Captures Gulf Action For Television</HEAD>
<HEAD>EDITOR'S NOTE _ This story is based on a report filed by Michael
Conlon of Reuters, a member of the Pentagon media pool in the
Persian Gulf.
   ___</HEAD>
<DATELINE>ABOARD THE USS CORONADO (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   An American couple covering U.S.
military action in the Persian Gulf hops from ship to ship to keep
up with a sometimes dangerous story, often serving as the eyes and
ears of U.S. television.
   Steve and Anne Cocklin _ he a cameraman and she his sound
technician _ have been in the gulf since late last year, operating
through the Pentagon's news media pool.
   Cocklin, 37, and his 34-year-old wife, both from Buffalo, N.Y.,
came to the region after the United States offered flag protection
to Kuwaiti oil tankers in July last year.
   Iran, at war with Iraq since September 1980, attacks merchant
vessels in the gulf in retaliation for Iraqi raids on
Iranian-chartered shipping.
   The Cocklins, who have a 19-month-old daughter, Kate, soon
became a common sight on the Navy frigates, destroyers and
helicopters that criss-cross the gulf with pool members on board.
   Asked if they have ever felt their lives were on the line, both
answered without hesitation ``April 18.'' That was the day U.S.
forces destroyed two Iranian oil rigs and damaged two frigates in
daylong fighting that was the most intense since the United States
began its tanker patrols.
   ``In any other situation we've ever been in, any combat, you can
go in, get the bang-bang, and get out. But this time we had to stay
put. We were the target,'' Mrs. Cocklin said. ``You just have to
hope that all those young kids you're seeing there have been
trained and trained well.''
   The Cocklins were filming from a firing deck of the USS Jack
Williams, a guided missle frigate, when it came under attack off
the coast of Iran north of the Strait of Hormuz, at the southern
end of the gulf.
   ``It only lasted for about an hour, an hour and a half. But it
seemed like a lot longer,'' Cocklin said. ``Anne said to me, `I
wonder if it's going to end.' They kept calling `missile inbound'
and they'd go through a lot of maneuvers, flank speed, throwing
chaff out. It was scary.''
   At one point a Navy helicopter crewman picked up a gun ``Rambo
style'' and started firing at what appeared to be an incoming
missile which passed by the stern of the ship, Cocklin said.
   In Buffalo, Steve Cocklin worked for local TV stations and his
wife had a job in advertising until she was awarded a Rotary club
fellowship in Florence, Italy, eight years ago.
   After the fellowship the couple stayed in Italy, trying
unsuccessfully to break into television news work.
   ``We were down to our last $100 and getting ready to go home,''
Cocklin said. ``That was in 1981, in May. The Pope got shot. The
telephone started ringing. I've been working for the networks ever
since.''
   Their work included several visits to the battle zones in Beirut
before they went on the gulf.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0162 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1817EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u a AM-MultipleKillings     06-20 0477</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Multiple Killings,0492</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Court Stays Execution of Simmons</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By BILL SIMMONS</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<TEXT>
   LITTLE ROCK, Ark. _ The state Supreme Court on Monday postponed
the execution of murderer R. Gene Simmons, who had pleaded after
his sentencing last month that there be no such delays.
   The action came one week before Simmons, 47, was scheduled to
receive a lethal injection for killing two people in Russellville
during a 40-minute shooting rampage that left four others wounded
on Dec. 28. It would have been the state's first execution since
1964.
   When he was sentenced on May 12, Simmons told Judge John S.
Patterson he was ready to die, saying, ``Let the torture and
suffering in me end.''
   He apparently hoped to avoid a July 18 trial for the deaths of
14 relatives, whose bodies were found on his isolated property in
the Ozark Mountains north of Dover.
   The 6-1 ruling Monday improves the possibility that Simmons will
be tried in July because, even if the state Supreme Court lets his
sentence stand, Gov. Bill Clinton would set the next execution date
and that process usually takes about 40 days.
   In the ruling, the state's highest court said it would look into
issues raised by would-be intervenor Louis J. Franz of Star City.
   Franz, a minister, heads Arkansas Churches for Life, which
opposes the death penalty.
   ``I am naturally pleased, because I think it gives us an
opportunity to look further into the matter, which has been our
hope,'' Franz said in Star City.
   Marvin Evans, assistant warden at the maxium security unit of
the state prison, said Simmons had no particular reaction when
informed of the court's decision. When asked if he wanted to make a
statement for the media, Simmons declined, Evans said.
   The court said it wants to explore these questions:
   _Whether Franz has a right to get into the case as a
representative of Simmons' interests, as Franz has filed to do.
   _Whether the state Supreme Court should have mandatory review of
death cases or, if there is no mandatory review, whether the court
should review a death case waiver of appeal and whether the waiver
was made knowingly and intelligently.
   The Supreme Court order said Simmons, the state, and Franz may
appear June 28 for oral arguments.
   In a dissenting opinion, Associate Justice John Purtle said
there is no requirement or procedure for mandatory review of all
death sentences. Simmons had the right to waive the appeal,
provided he did so knowingly and intelligently, Purtle wrote.
   The Franklin County Circuit Court in Ozark, where Simmons was
convicted, held two hearings in which Simmons' competency to waive
his appeal was considered.
   Simmons was convicted May 12 of killing Kathy Kendrick, 24, and
James Chaffin, 33, at separate Russellville businesses. Simmons
surrendered after telling a bystander he had gotten everyone who
had hurt him.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0163 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1826EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u w AM-US-Haiti 3rdLd-Writethru a0759 06-20 0621</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-US-Haiti, 3rd Ld-Writethru, a0759,600</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>US Condemns Coup D'Etat in Haiti</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: Adds 4 grafs with comment by former ambassador</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By HENRY GOTTLIEB</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The United States condemned the military
takeover in Haiti on Monday and called it a ``serious blow to hopes
for democracy.''
   After reviewing the situation for several hours, the State
Department issued a statement through spokeswoman Phyllis Oakley,
saying, ``It is now clear that a military coup d'etat has taken
place in Haiti.
   ``The United States government strongly condemns this serious
blow to hopes for democracy in that troubled land.''
   Mrs. Oakley also noted that Col. Jean-Claude Paul, a Haitian
army officer under indictment on drug charges in Miami, appeared on
the platform with Lt. Gen. Henri Namphy, when Namphy announced the
civilian government led by president Leslie Manigat had been
deposed and declared himself president.
   Manigat, who had taken office Feb. 7, arrived with his family in
the Dominican Republic on Monday, according to military sources
there.
   Mrs. Oakley said the United States had no advance knowledge of
the coup, would continue to press for democracy in Haiti and would
consult with governments in the region on future steps.
   ``We're simply looking at the situation and will decide what to
do,'' she said.
   Since the removal of Haitian dictator Jean Claude Duvalier in
February 1986, the United States has sought the creation of free
government institutions and, as Mrs. Oakley put it, ``devoted
considerable resources to the hoped-for transition to democracy.''
   Progress toward democracy has been a condition for restoration
of $60 million in direct U.S. aid, which was suspended last autumn
during an election campaign marred by massive violence. The aid
remained withheld after the United States said Manigat's election
in January was engineered by military authorities.
   Mrs. Oakley said the United States still sought strict
observance of human rights in Haiti, economic progress ``to
alleviate the suffering of the Haitian people,'' cooperation on the
problem of narcotics trafficking and ``most important, the
establishment of credible transition to a democratic government led
by civilians in Haiti.''
   Meanwhile, the United States issued an advisory to would-be
travelers to Haiti to defer non-essential trips to the country
``due to the changing political situation and resulting security
uncertainties.''
   Mrs. Oakley said there were no reports of American in Haiti
being harmed during the coup.
   In Toronto, Canada, where President Reagan was attending the
economic summit of major industrialized democracies, White House
spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said, ``We do not know exactly what is
happening or who was behind this coup attempt.''
   He said, ``Our information is sketchy and we are still trying to
make sure we know all the facts and details.'' He said the coup did
not come up in the discussions between Reagan and the other leaders.
   Reagan, asked by a reporter what was going on in Haiti, said,
``We are assessing that right now.''
   Ernest Preeg, U.S. ambassador to Haiti from 1981 to 1983, said
the events in Haiti reminded him of the situation in Panama, where
military leader Manuel Antonio Noriega has resisted U.S. pressure
to give way to civilian rule.
   ``I think one lesson that we should have learned is that even
with relatively small, weak, poor countries such as Haiti, the
United States is not able just to flex its financial _ or whatever
_ muscle and make things happen in a certain way,'' Preeg said on
Cable News Network.
   The local power structure in Haiti is willing to buck U.S.
pressure, he said.
   ``I think that's a factor that has some relationship, some
bearing, with recent experience with Panama and its something that
will be a factor in the months ahead in Haiti,'' Preeg said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0164 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 2013EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a AM-MontanaDrought     06-20 0486</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Montana Drought,0499</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Public Action Called For As Water Runs Low In Montana</HEAD>
<HEAD>With AM-Drought Rdp, Bjt</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By SUE O'CONNELL</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>HELENA, Mont. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   With streams running near record low levels
and reservoirs beginning to dry up, an emergency task force of
Montana water users complained Monday that state officials
squandered preparation time for a drought they should have seen
coming.
   ``Once again, we end up waiting until our backs are up against a
wall,'' Drought Task Force Chairman George Ochenski said.
   The state advisory board of water users, including farmers,
ranchers, fishing guides and outfitters, called on the government
Monday to begin a series of town meetings across Montana to inform
the public and to encourage water conservation.
   Ochenski and other task force members said they felt state
officials have been reluctant to plan for drought and promote
conservation efforts, ignoring earlier recommendations for an
aggressive approach.
   ``It seems to me that it's time to tell them, `Hey, we told you
so,''' said Richard Parks of the Fishing and Floating Outfitters
Association.
   Meanwhile, the drought is burning up some of Montana's prime
cropland. The Bureau of Reclamation says three of its irrigation
reservoirs in Montana could go dry this summer, two of them by
early August.
   Crop moisture levels are so low in some areas of the state that
above-average precipitation would be needed simply to salvage
crops. Gov. Ted Schwinden has asked that 22 of the state's 56
counties be declared drought disaster areas.
   But state Agriculture Director Keith Kelly, who is not a member
of the task force, later disputed the urgency of the call for
conservation. He said most farmers in Montana rely on snow and
rain, not irrigation, for crops. He questioned how effective water
conservation efforts would be for those farmers.
   ``We get our water from Mother Nature,'' he said. ``If she
treats us right, we do well. This year, she didn't treat us so
well.''
   Low snowpack last year also lowered stream flows substantially
and put Montana on the verge of a devastating drought. But heavy
summer rains made 1987 a bumper year.
   ``We always hope for rain, and we've been saved by rain many
times,'' said Lt. Gov. Gordon McOmber. But, he added, even rains
this month won't save crops in many areas, just ``stop the
blowing.''
   In the ``Golden Triangle'' wheat-producing region in north
central Montana, Kelly added, ``six inches of rain will do you no
good now.''
   Crops also have been damaged in northeastern Montana, which has
baked under record 100-degree temperatures while precipitation has
been about 15 to 30 percent of normal. June usually is the rainiest
month of the year.
   Kelly noted that many parts of the state are in the fifth or
sixth year of drought.
   Montana farmers and ranchers are used to living through these
cycles, McOmber said. ``We haven't thrown in the towel yet.
Montana's `next-year' country.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0165 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1843EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u i AM-Israel 1stLd-Writethru a0670 06-20 0715</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Israel, 1st Ld-Writethru, a0670,0732</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Israeli Farmer Killed; Police Accuse Palestinians</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: New throughout to UPDATE with two soldiers injured by
firebomb; raises injury toll in gas explosion to at least 24;
Israeli farmers block roads to Arab villages; new Shamir quote.
EDITS to TRIM. No pickup.</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By MASHA HAMILTON</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>JERUSALEM (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   An Israeli farmer was found stabbed and
bludgeoned to death in his vineyard Monday. Police blamed
Palestinian activists and rounded up 20 Arab suspects.
   ``This is very serious,'' Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir, head of
the right-wing Likud bloc, said on Israel television. ``If it is
determined that the murder was motivated by the (Arab) struggle
against Israel, we will respond appropriately.''
   Farmer Eli Cohen was the fourth Israeli to be killed in the Arab
uprising that began Dec. 8. At least 210 Palestinians have died.
   Recent Palestinian-Israeli violence has occurred primarily in
Jerusalem or in the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip, where 1.5
million Arabs live under Israeli military rule. It has rarely
spilled over into Israeli towns.
   Two soldiers were injured when assailants threw a firebomb at an
army jeep patrolling Gaza City, an army official said. Several
Arabs were detained, he said.
   In the West Bank city of Nablus, soldiers shot an 18-year-old
Arab in the leg during a clash with stone-throwing protesters, Al
Ittihad hospital officials said.
   A dozen soldiers then raided the hospital looking for
protesters, dragged three Arab youths outside, then released them
after an interrogation, said the hospital officials, speaking on
condition their names not be used. The military said it had no
report of the demonstration or the raid.
   The slaying of Cohen was particularily shocking to many Israelis
because it occurred in a small, isolated farming community inside
Israel.
   Angry residents of the farming community where Cohen lived on
Monday night blocked several roads leading from the neighboring
Arab villages to the so-called Green Line dividing Israel and the
West Bank, Israel radio said. The report did not elaborate.
   Cohen, a 33-year-old father of two whose wife was pregnant, was
stabbed in the back and beaten, apparently with an iron rod, and
his head was crushed, police said.
   His body was found near the Shekef Moshav, or collective farm,
where 33 families live. The community is near the West Bank and
about 25 miles south of Jerusalem. It borders three Arab villages.
   ``We find ourselves among a hostile population of 40,000 Arabs .
.. 40,000 potential murderers,'' said David Ulinsky, the security
officer at the farm, speaking on Israel radio.
   Cohen left home Sunday evening on a tractor to spray insecticide
on his vineyard 10 miles away, said Etti Elinsky, a farm
spokeswoman. He never returned.
   His body was found Monday morning by another farmer. Police
quickly sealed off the neighboring Arab villages and placed two of
them under curfew.
   Also Monday, Israeli soldiers welded shut the doors of a
Palestinian charitable organization, the El Bireh-based Family
Welfare Center, and claimed it was being used to ``brainwash''
children.
   The center's director, Samiha Khalil, told reporters her
organization only helped girls and women in distress.
   The army also closed four Arab schools, bringing to nine the
number of schools shut in the last three days.
   Dozens of Palestinians staged a sit-in at the Red Cross building
in the Gaza Strip, in solidarity with Arab children involved in the
uprising. The two-hour protest was in keeping with the latest
underground leaflet, which called for Monday to be a day to honor
``Palestinian Children Martyrs.''
   The Association for Civil Rights in Israel said the army has
resorted to jailing thousands of Palestinians without trial simply
to alleviate the overload of cases in military courts.
   The organization also said military police were ``lethargic'' in
investigating allegations of violence by soldiers against Arabs.
   An army spokesman said jailing without trial was only used in
cases where a public trial would endanger Israeli intelligence. He
denied military police were slow to probe brutality allegations and
said 350 such cases had been investigated to date.
   An explosion caused by a gas leak at a pizzeria in the seaside
resort of Herzliya near Tel Aviv, injured at least 24 Israelis. Tel
Aviv Police Chief Yigal Marcus said police were investigating
whether someone had intentionally caused the leak.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0166 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 2014EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r w AM-ScubaRecall     06-20 0201</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Scuba Recall,190</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Recall Ordered for Scuba Dry Suits Using Single Air Control Valve</HEAD>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The government announced a recall Monday of
scuba diving dry suits using air control valves made by Diving
Unlimited International because malfunctioning valves may cause
serious injury or death.
   The Consumer Product Safety Commission said owners of dry suits
with AC (air control) valves made by the San Diego-based Diving
Unlimited International Inc. ``should immediately stop using the
dry suits.''
   The commission said there have been 16 diving incidents
associated with malfunctioning of the valve, which deflates or
inflates the dry suits to allow divers to equalize air presssure
while ascending or descending in water.
   The commission said that unlike most air control systems which
have two valves that allow air intake and outflow through two
separate valves, DUI's one-valve system ``may free-flow, causing
air to fill the dry suit, resulting in the diver rising rapidly to
the surface or failing to provide sufficient air to maintain
buoyancy.''
   DUI says owners of suits with the company's valve should return
their suits to the company and the valve will be replaced at no
charge.
   DUI can be contacted at 800-327-8439, the commission at
800-638-2772.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0167 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 2018EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a AM-WeatherpageWeather     06-20 0390</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Weatherpage Weather,0398</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Hot And Dry On Plains, Only Scattered Rain Elsewhere</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By The Associated Press</BYLINE>
<TEXT>
   Dry weather with record high temperatures dominated the Plains
and Midwest on Monday with showers and thunderstorms mostly
confined to the edges of the nation.
   Record highs included 92 at Alpena, Mich.; 101 at Billings,
Mont.; 95 at Cleveland, tie; 104 at Concordia, Kan.; 98 at Des
Moines, Iowa, tie; 100 at Dickenson, N.D.; 104 at Dodge City, Kan.;
99 at Dubuque, Iowa; 97 at Havre, Mont.; 99 at Kansas City, Mo.;
100 at Lamoni, Iowa, tie; 98 at Madison, Wis.; 100 at Moline, Ill.;
101 at Rapid City, S.D.; 100 at Rockford, Ill., tie; 101 at Sioux
Falls, S.D.; 105 at Williston, N.D.; and 93 at Youngstown, Ohio.
   Showers and thunderstorms produced around a tenth of an inch of
rain as they sagged from southwestern Lower Michigan into dry
northern Indiana during the morning before dissipating in the
afternoon. The storms brought only about a tenth of an inch of rain
to an area that is 5 to 7 inches below normal in rainfall so far
this year. Kankakee, Ill., reported 0.69 of an inch.
   Elsewhere, thunderstorms developed along the Gulf of Mexico
coast and eastern Florida, and over parts of the central
Appalachians.
   Scattered thunderstorms moved into northern sections of New
England with a possibility of severe weather.
   Other thunderstorms were over parts of the central valleys of
California.
   Temperatures around the nation at 3 p.m. EDT ranged from 55
degrees at Crescent City, Calif., to 107 at Hill City, Kan. The low
for the day was 40 at Gunnison, Colo.
   For Tuesday, scattered showers and thunderstorms were forecast
from the central and eastern Gulf Coast across the Florida
Peninsula and across the upper Great Lakes. Showers and
thunderstorms will become numerous in the afternoon from southern
Idaho through western parts of Utah into northern Arizona.
   Highs in the 70s were predicted along the California coast and
northern Maine; in the 90s from southwestern sections of Washington
state through central Oregon into the valleys of California;
between 95 and 105 from the central Rockies through the northern
and central Plains into the middle Mississippi and lower Ohio
valleys; between 100 and 110 over the desert Southwest; and in the
80s or low 90s across much of the rest of the nation.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0168 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1910EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u w AM-Iran-Contra 2ndLd-Writethru a0771 06-20 1060</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Iran-Contra, 2nd Ld-Writethru, a0771,1,040</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Former CIA Station Chief in Costa Rica Indicted</HEAD>
<NOTE>EDS: SUBS last graf with 2 grafs background</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By JAMES ROWLEY</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The CIA's former station chief in Costa Rica
was indicted Monday on charges he participated in an illegal
conspiracy to arm the Nicaraguan rebels and lied to his superiors
to keep the operation secret.
   Joseph F. Fernandez, 51, also known as Tomas Castillo, was
charged with helping former National Security Council aide Oliver
L. North and arms dealer Richard V. Secord ship arms to the Contras
in 1986 when Congress had banned U.S. military assistance to the
rebels.
   The five-count indictment also charges that Fernandez obstructed
the Iran-Contra investigation conducted last year by the
presidential commission headed by former Sen. John Tower, R-Texas,
by stating falsely that he did not know that North was involved in
covert aid to the Contras or that supplies Fernandez helped deliver
included weapons and ammunition.
   The indictment alleges that Fernandez oversaw construction of an
airstrip in northern Costa Rica to help delivery of arms to the
Contras and encouraged rebel leaders to reopen the so-called
Southern Front of Nicaragua's civil war with promises of military
assistance.
   He also is charged with lying to an official of the CIA's
Central America Task Force and later the CIA's Office of Inspector
General about the true nature of the airstrip.
   The indictment by the special federal grand jury investigating
the Iran-Contra affair signalled that independent counsel Lawrence
E. Walsh is continuing his probe while preparing to try North,
Secord, former national security adviser John M. Poindexter and
arms dealer Albert Hakim on a separate conspiracy charge.
   The judge in those cases, Gerhard A. Gesell, strongly indicated
last week that he was ready to set a date for North to go to trial
in U.S. District Court.
   Gesell has ruled that North and his co-defendants should be
tried separately on charges they conspired illegally to divert
U.S.-Iran arms sale profits to the Contras.
   The case against Fernandez was assigned to Aubrey E. Robinson
Jr., chief judge of U.S. District Court here.
   Thomas Wilson, an attorney representing Fernandez, declined to
comment on the charges, saying he had not had an opportunity to
review the indictment.
   Laurence Shtasel, an associate independent counsel, said the
grand jury was continuing to meet and suggested that its 18-month
term would be extended when it expires next month.
   ``The grand jury's investigation is ongoing, I have no further
comment as to what you should or shouldn't expect,'' Shtasel told
reporters outside the U.S. Courthouse after the indictment was
returned by the grand jury.
   Fernandez, who was named as an unindicted co-conspirator in the
charges returned March 16 against North, Poindexter, Hakim and
Secord, is accused of conspiring to defraud the U.S. government by
participating in a clandestine arms-supply network for the Contras.
   The indictment charges that in 1985, Fernandez ``worked in
coordination with his co-conspirators in establishing a clandestine
supply network to support military and paramilitary operations in
Nicaragua by the Contras'' at a time when direct U.S. military aid
was banned by Congress.
   Fernandez and his co-conspirators acted ``deceitfully and
without legal authorization'' in running the secret supply network,
the indictment said.
   The indictment does not specifically name Fernandez's alleged
co-conspirators, but it notes that he met with Robert Owen and
Rafael Quintero, associates of North, to discuss the operation.
   It notes that North gave him a secure communications device
obtained from an unidentified government agency. Fernandez used the
device to exchange messages with North and Quintero, a Cuban exile
who had fought in the aborted Bay of Pigs invasion of Cuba and was
a veteran of other covert CIA operations, the indictment said.
   The indictment charges that Fernandez helped North and Secord
coordinate air drops of arms to the Southern Front in April 1986
and directed eight other shipments between June and September of
that year.
   He also is accused of opening the so-called Southern Front of
the civil war by encouraging Contra forces in Costa Rica to
re-enter the conflict against Sandinista troops with promises of
military aid.
   Fernandez also is accused of using a Panamanian company, Udall
Research Corp., to buy land for the airstrip in northwest Costa
Rica and supervising its construction in the fall of 1985.
   The indictment alleges that Fernandez met in the Costa Rican
capital city of San Jose with William Haskell, also known as Robert
Olmsted, at the direction of North and Secord. Haskell was
identified by the congressional Iran-Contra investigating
committees as being involved in the negotiations for the airstrip
land.
   As part of the conspiracy count, Fernandez is charged with
making a false statement to an official of the CIA's Central
American Task Force in late September 1986 during a meeting at the
agency's headquarters about the true nature of the airstrip.
   Fernandez, who retired from the CIA earlier this year, also is
accused of trying to cover up the supply network by sending
incomplete or unresponsive cable messages in response to the
Central American Task Force's inquiry.
   The task force probe was launched after a C-123K cargo plane
carrying arms to the rebels was shot down over southern Nicaragua.
   Fernandez is separately charged with making a false statement to
an official of the CIA's Office of Inspector General on Jan. 11,
1987, when he said the airstrip was a project of the Costa Rican
government to train its forces for a possible invasion by Nicaragua.
   Fernandez told a private session of the congressional
Iran-Contra committees that his CIA superiors were aware of his
efforts to help deliver arms to the Contras.
   According to transcripts later released by the committees,
Fernandez said that he misled the Tower Commission and the CIA's
inspector general about his involvement in the supply operation.
   But Fernandez said that in so doing, he thought he was ``acting
within the guidelines'' that had been arranged by Clair George, the
CIA's deputy director for operations who retired last year.
   Fernandez was one of several CIA employees disciplined last
December by CIA Director William Webster for their roles in the
Iran-Contra affair. Asked if he disputed press reports that Webster
had fired his client Wilson said: ``Maybe yes, maybe no, it depends
on the perspective you take. He resigned from the agency.''
   Wilson said Fernandez left the CIA last December.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0169 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 2023EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a AM-AbandonedChildren     06-20 0250</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Abandoned Children,0260</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Woman Abandons Five Children At Hospital, Says She Will Return
Later</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By JAMES LITKE</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>CHICAGO (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A woman abandoned five children without
explanation in the emergency room Monday at Cook County Hospital,
saying she would return for them later in the week, a child-welfare
official said.
   ``They're apparently from the same family. They appear to be
healthy, they're well-clothed, well-nourished and there are no
bruises or other indications of abuse,'' said Dave Schneidman,
spokesman for the Illinois Department of Children and Family
Services.
   Schneidman said two of the children are 9-year-old twin boys.
The three remaining children are girls aged 5, 4 and 2.
   ``A woman came into the emergency room this morning and talked
either to a security guard or a bystander. She said, `I'll pick
these children up Thursday,''' said Schneidman, ``and then she just
walked off.''
   The children were taken under protective custody of the agency,
Schneidman said, and after complete physicial examinations, they
could be placed temporarily in foster homes.
   Schneidman said the woman left her name with someone at the
hospital and gave an address at a public-housing project.
   Police are looking for the woman, said Sgt. Steve Scholl.
   ``Everything is slightly `iffy' at this point,'' Schneidman said.
   ``We'd seek permanent custody, or what we call `termination of
parental rights' only as a last step,'' said Schneidman.
   ``We don't want to get ahead of ourselves yet. ... Maybe she
just thought she'd found a unique baby-sitting service.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0170 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 2024EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a AM-Obit-Martin     06-20 0343</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Obit-Martin,0354</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>``The Mother Of Gospel Music'' Dies</HEAD>
<DATELINE>CHICAGO (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Sallie Martin, who was known as ``the mother of
gospel music,'' has died at age 92.
   Mrs. Martin died Saturday in Hyde Park Community Hospital, 59
years after making her first record.
   ``Her greatest contributions were her energy and love for the
music. She made gospel music, that's all there is to it,'' said
Otis Clay, a gospel and rhythm and blues artist who met Mrs. Martin
in the 1960s.
   Clay was one of the singers and musicians backstage at the
Chicago Music Festival held here over the weekend who remembered
Mrs. Martin and said they owe their popularity to her booming
soprano voice and lifelong dedication to gospel music.
   ``Even when she gave her last concert in April, she was as
dedicated as the day she started,'' said Gregory Cooper,
keyboardist and her personal assistant for the last four years.
``She was disciplined, but a fire burned within her.''
   ``She was the mother of gospel and we are her children,'' added
Billie Barrett, of the Barrett Sisters. ``In heaven today, I'm sure
she is rejoicing, and I look forward to meeting her in the Great
Beyond.''
   Mrs. Martin was born in Pittfield, Ga., and started singing in a
Baptist church.
   ``We didn't have no soloists. We would all sing together, or if
you felt like you were going to testify, you might start out with a
song yourself,'' Mrs. Martin had said of her early years.
   Her search for work brought her to Cleveland and then Chicago,
where in 1932 she teamed up with the Rev. Thomas M. Dorsey.
   Together they criss-crossed the South. Mrs. Martin sang Dorsey's
syncopated hymns at churches and meeting halls along the way. After
performances, she sold sheet music for 10 cents a copy.
   Mrs. Martin was featured in the documentary film ``Say Amen,
Somebody.''
   ``Sallie Martin was a gifted singer. She was a pioneer. Her
death is a great loss. We will miss her. The world will miss her,''
gospel singer Albertina Walker said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0171 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 2025EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i AM-Haiti-Glance     06-20 0316</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Haiti-Glance,0324</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>Eds: Retransmits a0783 to fix cycle designator.</NOTE>
<HEAD>With AM-Haiti, Bjt</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By The Associated Press</BYLINE>
<TEXT>
   Here are some facts and figures on Haiti:
</TEXT>
<TEXT>
   THE LAND _ Haiti covers 10,700 square miles on the Caribbean
island of Hispaniola, slightly more than Maryland. Most of the land
is arid and mountainous, deeply eroded and treeless, allowing
little more than subsistence farming. The Spanish-speaking
Dominican Republic occupies the eastern, more fertile, two-thirds
of the island.
</TEXT>
<TEXT>
   THE PEOPLE _ Ninety-five percent are descendants of African
slaves brought to the New World to cut sugar cane. A slave revolt
led by Francois Dominique Toussaint L'Ouverture led to independence
from France on Jan. 1, 1804, as the first black republic in history.
</TEXT>
<TEXT>
   THE ECONOMY _ Haiti is the Western Hemisphere's poorest country.
Life expectancy is 54 years, per capita annual income is $379 and
85 percent of Haitians live in poverty. Only 13 percent have access
to ptable water. Thousands, including about 15,000 abandoned or
orphaned children, live and sleep in the streets of the capital,
Port-au-Prince, without shelter, sanitary facilities or other
necessities. A privileged class of about 60,000 has nearly half the
national wealth.
</TEXT>
<TEXT>
   HISTORY _ Haiti controled all Hispaniola in 1818-1839. U.S.
troops occupied the country from 1915 to 1934 after a long period
of instability. A 10-year boom after World War II brought foreign
investment, tourism and public works on a grand scale but little
was done to help the poor. More turmoil culminated in 1957 with the
election of Francois Duvalier, a doctor who declared himself
president-for-life in 1964. ``Papa Doc'' died in 1971 and was
succeeded by his 19-year-old son, Jean-Claude. The Duvalier family
amassed an immense fortune and created the notorious Tonton
Macoutes, a private militia that throttled political opposition by
arresting, torturing and killing at will. Jean-Claude fled in
February 1986 after food riots grew into nationwide protests.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0172 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 2025EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i AM-Lebanon-Palestinians     06-20 0144</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Lebanon-Palestinians,0147</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Fighting in Refugee Camps Kill 2 , Wound 13</HEAD>
<DATELINE>BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   PLO chief Yasser Arafat's guerrillas and
Syrian-backed factions exchanged artillery fire in Beirut's refugee
camps Monday, police reported. They said two people were killed and
13 wounded.
   Explosions could be heard throughout Beirut during the battle
with howitzers, mortars and multiple rocket launchers at the
Chatilla and Bourj el-Barajneh camps.
   Monday's casualties raised the toll to 34 people killed and 143
wounded since the latest round of fighting for supremacy in the
camps began 11 days ago.
   Each side accused the other of starting Monday's battle, which
broke a four-day truce negotiated by Libyan mediators and a
security committee from seven Palestinian factions that are not
involved.
   Police said the fighting was between Arafat's Fatah, the
Palestine Liberation Organization's main guerrilla army, and
Fatah-Uprising led by Saeed Mousa.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0173 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1951EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u i AM-Summit-Drugs 1stLd-Writethru a0769 06-20 0389</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Summit-Drugs, 1st Ld-Writethru, a0769,360</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Seven Leaders Pledge Better Cooperation To Fight Drugs</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: Inserts one graf after 6th graf bgng: France ultimately ...
to UPDATE with Reagan quote. Picks up 7th graf pvs bgng: The
statement ...</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By CHARLES CAMPBELL</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>TORONTO (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Leaders of the seven largest industrial
democracies pledged Monday to step up a worldwide fight against the
illegal drug trade, saying narcotics abuse ``poses grave risks'' to
society.
   ``The complexity of the problem requires international
cooperation, in particular to trace, freeze and confiscate the
proceeds of drug traffickers, and to curb money laundering,'' they
said in a statement issued at the midpoint of the three-day summit.
   But a U.S. proposal to set up a task force of the seven nations
to oversee the coordination effort was blocked by France, which
said it did not want to see the annual seven-nation summit develop
into a year-round effort to run world affairs.
   ``The seven countries don't have the right to direct the rest of
the world,'' said French spokesman Hubert Vedrine.
   He said France would support a task force involving ``all
affected countries.''
   France ultimately abstained on a watered-down sentence
supporting the U.S. idea for a task force, Vedrine said, but backed
the rest of the summit statement on cooperation to fight drugs.
   Later, at a group photo with his summit colleagues, President
Reagan said he believed the task force can help us ``win the war
against drugs and we're going to win.''
   The statement said that ``the illegal use of drugs and illicit
trafficking in them poses grave risks to the peoples of summit
countries as well as the peoples of source and transit countries.''
   President Reagan fought hard to include the drug issue in the
statement dealing with political issues, said Rozanne Ridgway, the
assistant U.S. secretary of state.
   ``This is the first time that we have an initiative that tries
to address as a complex this set of concerns about production,
financing and trafficking of the drug trade,'' she said.
   No date has been set for the task force to start its work, and
which countries will be members has not been determined, she said.
   She said its activities might include improving
intelligence-sharing, increasing funds for anti-drug organizations
and working for better cooperation between central banks of the
various countries.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0174 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 2028EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a AM-GangRape     06-20 0338</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Gang Rape,0346</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Trial Dates Set for San Diego Gang Rape Defendants</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By JOEL WILLIAMS</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>SAN DIEGO, Texas (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A state district judge Monday scheduled
trial dates for seven of the 10 men accused in a woman's abduction
and gang rape.
   Eight of the 10 appeared before Judge Ricardo Garcia who also
overruled defense motions to quash the indictments stemming from a
19-year-old woman's report that she was kidnapped March 26 while
walking home from a relative's house and raped repeatedly by as
many as 20 men.
   ``We're ready to go to trial,'' said Duval County First
Assistant District Attorney Rodolfo Gutierrez. ``I think our
witnesses are ready. We'll be ready on July 11, which is the first
setting that we have.''
   Other trial dates were set for September.
   The south Texas ranching town was shaken by the woman's
allegations that one of the scenes during her ordeal, lasting
several hours, was a ranch where spectators at a cockfight ignored
her pleas for help and may have joined in the attack.
   Many people here say they are related to at least one defendant,
either by blood or marriage.
   Ten men were named in 12 indictments April 21. Three of them
were charged with sexual assault, five others with sexual assault
and aggravated kidnapping, and one man was charged with kidnapping.
One defendant was charged with sexual assault and two counts of
aggravated kidnapping.
   Defense attorneys Monday attempted to obtain evidence that might
show which of the defendants were cooperating with prosecutors in
exchange for leniency.
   Albert Pena, who is defending five of the men with attorney Nago
Alaniz, told the judge they did not want to be ``in the position
where if we talk to our clients, we may be talking to someone who
is a conduit to the state.''
   But Gutierrez said no such deals had been made with any of the
defendants.
   ``The door is still open if any of them want to come forward,''
Gutierrez said after Monday's pretrial hearing.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0175 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 2010EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a AM-TimberStrike     06-20 0505</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Timber Strike,0519</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Strike Spreads To Boise Cascade Plants</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By BOB BAUM</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>PORTLAND, Ore. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The Northwest woodworkers' strike spread
to 12 Boise Cascade Corp. plants Monday, bringing the total of
striking workers to about 6,600 in four states.
   Woodworkers also set up pickets at a Willamette Industries Inc.
paper mill in Albany, Ore., where 300 paperworkers refused to cross
the lines.
   Two woodworkers' unions _ the International Woodworkers of
America-U.S. and the Western Council of Industrial Workers _ are
attempting to regain wages and benefits cut in the last round of
contract negotiations two years ago, when the industry was in a
recession.
   The unions have reached a two-year contract agreement with
Bohemia Inc. of Eugene, Ore., for a 5 percent wage hike the first
year and a 4 percent increase the second. Union leaders want the
agreement to serve as a standard for other companies, but the other
companies have balked.
   Boise Cascade spokesman Doug Bartels said his company would not
be competitive if it agreed to the Bohemia terms.
   The Boise Cascade walkout affected 2,078 workers at 13 plants in
Oregon, Washington and Idaho, Bartels said. The walkout against the
company began at a mill in Independence, Ore., Sunday and moved to
the other facilities Monday.
   The woodworkers' strike began June 6 against Willamette
Industries, DAW Forest Products Co. and Champion International
Corp. operations in Oregon, Washington and Montana. The smaller
Lakeview Lumber Co. also was struck last week after its owners
imposed wage cuts.
   Bill Hubbell, president of the International Woodworkers of
America-U.S., said chances are good the walkout will continue to
grow.
   ``Undoubtedly as bargaining falls apart with the various
companies, there's a good possibility that it will go beyond what
it is now,'' he said.
   The bargaining council representing both unions has negotiations
scheduled this week with representatives of Simpson Timber Co. and
next week with the biggest of the region's wood products companies,
Weyerhaeuser Co.
   Simpson has about 2,000 workers and Weyerhaeuser about 6,000.
   Hubbell said the unions realized that concessions were necessary
during the last talks. ``But in light of record profit years the
last two years,'' he added, ``we felt certain there would be some
social justice at the table with these employers but so far we
haven't seen any.''
   Contracts have expired at only two Boise Cascade plants, in
Independence and St. Helens, Ore., but pickets were set up at all
13 of the company's plants that have union representation in the
Northwest. The workers were not crossing the lines, Bartels said.
   ``I guess by the legal definition of it they are recognizing
sympathy pickets,'' he said. ``But the reality is the plants are
shut down.''
   The pickets shut down plants in La Grande, Elgin and Joseph in
Oregon; Yakima, Goldendale and Kettle Falls in Washington; and
Emmett, Cascade and Council in Idaho. Some of the sites have more
than one manufacturing plant, Bartels said.
   The company has eight non-union plants in the Northwest
unaffected by the walkout, Bartels said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0176 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 2033EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r w AM-BRF--SpaceTelescope     06-20 0137</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-BRF--Space Telescope,120</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>NASA Conducts Tests on Space Telescope</HEAD>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   NASA's $1.5 billion space telescope,
languishing in a ``clean room'' in California, is being exercised
around the clock for 5{ days this week in what the space agency
calls ``one of the most comprehensive tests ever undertaken.''
   The telescope, which will enable astronomers to photograph stars
seven times farther away than now, is scheduled to ride into space
aboard the shuttle next June 1. In the meantime, it is at the
Lockheed plant in Sunnyvale, Calif. The test will be conducted from
the Goddard Space Flight Center in Maryland.
   ``This is the first time we have operated the spacecraft for
this period of time and at this level of sophistication,'' said
Goddard's Ron Felice, the deputy project manager of flight
operations for the telescope.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0177 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 2034EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i AM-UN-Afghanistan     06-20 0652</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-UN-Afghanistan,0681</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Afghan Rebel Leader Confirms Secret Talks With U.N. Official</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: One name for Najib is cq.</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By PETER JAMES SPIELMANN</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>UNITED NATIONS (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   An Afghan rebel field commander said
Monday he met with a senior U.N. official to ask that aid be
withheld from the communist government in Afghanistan.
   Abdul Haq, a Moslem rebel commander in the Kabul region, told
The Associated Press that he met Sunday and Monday in New York with
Giandomenico Picco, a U.N. undersecretary-general who was involved
in mediating accords for a Soviet troop withdrawal and Afghan
reconstruction.
   U.N. officials on Monday refused to confirm or deny the meeting.
The United States has demanded that no U.N. aid be distributed
through the communist government of Afghan President Najib.
   Speaking in English at his midtown Manhattan hotel, Haq said he
would meet agaion with Picco on Tuesday.
   U.N. officials have met with Afghan rebel political leaders
based in Pakistan, but this was believed to be the first official
U.N. contact with a military field commander.
   The Moslem rebels, supported by the United States, continue to
fight to topple the Afghan government and establish an Islamic
republic. The rebels were not part of the accord signed in Geneva
on April 14 calling for Soviet withdrawal and Afghan reconstruction.
   Haq is a member of the Hezb-i-Islamic-Khalis party, one of the
more moderate Islamic groups fighting the Afghan government.
   He said he has discussed with Picco two issues: financial
support for Afghan reconstruction and political solutions to the
civil war, which began in 1979.
   ``I told him that while the Soviets were in the country and the
(Najib) regime in power, it is possible that they would get some of
that money,'' Haq said. ``If they use that to build a road or
bridges for military purposes, in killing some of my people, the
United Nations is responsible.
   ``Also, this money is coming for the return of refugees. Who are
the refugees? They are my people, not Najib's,'' said Haq.
   About 5 million Afghan refugees are now living in Pakistan and
Iran.
   On the subject of political solutions, Haq said he told Picco
that ``the Soviets must go.''
   The Najib government has said Soviet military advisers will
remain in Afghanistan after the 103,000 Red Army soldiers return
home.
   Soviet troops, which intervened in 1979 at the invitation of the
government, began their withdrawal from Afghanistan on May 15, in
accordance with the Geneva pact. They are scheduled to complete the
pullout by Feb. 15, 1989.
   ``The U.N. is in favor of a broad-based government, so to have a
broad-based government Najib must step down,'' he added.
   Haq said he believed that Picco was inclined to agree with his
views that Najib had no place in a representative Afghan government.
   Pakistan and Afghanistan signed the Geneva accord, with the
Soviet Union and United States serving as guarantors. The accord
calls for the United Nations to supervise the Soviet pullout and to
coordinate relief and reconstruction efforts and refugee
resettlement.
   The coordinator for the U.N. Humanitarian and Economic
Assistance effort in Afghanistan, Sadruddin Aga Khan, has said the
United Nations will ask the world community for $1.17 billion for
an 18-month campaign to resettle Afghan refugees and see them
through two harvests.
   He said $25 million already had been pledged.
   A three-year recovery program would follow, Sadruddin said,
which was estimated to cost $839.6 million.
   Sadruddin has said relief aid will be distributed through
whatever authority controls a region in Afghanistan, but has not
specified the central government in Kabul, the capital, suggesting
the United Nations may work with local and regional governments and
religious authorities.
   Richard Williams, a United States delegate to the U.N., said
during a pledge review meeting on June 14: ``The aid should not
come under the control of the illegitimate Kabul regime, which
lacks credibility with the refugees and controls little territory.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0178 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 2036EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u a AM-OrangutanBreakup 1stLd-Writethru a0746 06-20 0706</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Orangutan Breakup, 1st Ld-Writethru, a0746,0721</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Angry Reaction to Splitting Up Orangutan Couple after 19 Years</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: SUBS 9th graf ``The impending'' with 3 grafs to CORRECT to
Laurie, sted Lauri, and supply details of Josephine's birth control
and death of other offspring. DELETES extraneous 4th graf pvs.</NOTE>
<HEAD>LaserPhoto FX3</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By MARY McGRATH</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>SAN FRANCISCO (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The marriage of orangutans Josephine and
Denny is on the rocks after 19 years, and zoo officials are citing
irreconcilable genes.
   The couple hadn't been getting along anyway, but that wasn't the
reason for the breakup. A national species survival policy and
international zoo rules call for two genetic strains to be kept
separate, San Francisco Zoo Director Saul Kitchener said Monday.
   So the zoo is planning to move Josephine, a Bornean orangutan,
to the Philadelphia Zoo, where she can hook up with one of her own
kind, while Denny, a Sumatran orangutan, remains here. It was only
recently that experts became adept at determining the differences
between the two subspecies.
   But the decision by zoo officials to dissolve the 19-year
relationship has sparked a sentimental reaction that zoo officials
say could stand in the way of the survival of the endangered
species.
   Longtime zoo benefactors Violet and Carroll Soo-Hoo, who donated
Josephine, said the two orangutans are more than just another
couple staying together for the children.
   ``These are extremely sensitive animals, among our closest
relatives in nature. (Josephine) has been here for 22 years, and a
change of this magnitude ... can only be seen as extremely cruel,''
said the Soo-Hoos in a letter to Mayor Art Agnos.
   Agnos referred the matter to the city Department of Parks and
Recreation, which runs the zoo, for consideration at its next
meeting. ``He's not going to get involved himself in an orangutan
question,'' said Agnos' aide Scott Schafer.
   The impending breakup should not be traumatic for the orangutan
couple, since organutans chase away their young after three or four
years and do not live in families like chimps and gorillas,
Kitchener said.
   Josephine and Denny were childhood playmates and bred two
children. But Denny now spends his days hunkered down in a corner
of the couple's grotto at the San Francisco Zoo, his back to
Josephine and his 10-year-old daughter, Violet, said orangutan
keeper Laurie Nikitas.
   Josephine and Denny bred twice and Josephine is given birth
control to prevent her from breeding again with Denny. The couple's
second child, a boy, died very young.
   ``She won't even let Denny breed her anymore,'' said Nikitas.
``He tried, but she struggles and bites and tries to get away ...
They used to be a nice solid little couple, but they don't play now
... They tolerate each other.''
   ``The orangutan in the wild is much more a loner than the other
great apes,'' Kitchener said. ``While it is true they have been
together a while, if you come and watch them, you do not see them
hugging and grooming each other. They will do fine without each
other.''
   And a mail-order bride herself couldn't have done better than
Josephine, according to Nikitas' description.
   ``She'll have a mate in Philadelphia. At 26, she should be able
to have a few more babies, and in addition, she'll have a big yard
with trees and a water moat. It's one of the best zoos in the
world,'' she said.
   But the Soo-Hoos said: ``We know what happens when humans are
uprooted from their families. It is not much different for these
animals, since they are so intelligent.''
   The Soo-Hoos under previous zoo management were allowed inside
the cage to help with the young Josephine and Denny, and the
organutan's daughter, Violet, was named after Mrs. Soo-Hoo.
   Violet, a hybrid conceived before zoo rules banned the mating of
subspecies, would not exist in the wild because Borneo and Sumatra
are separate islands, Kitchener said.
   The Soo-Hoos disagree.
   ``When the types of orangutans mate, the hybrid is probably
closer to the original orangutan, since Borneo and Sumatra were
once attached,'' Mrs. Soo-Hoo said. ``And we're not against sending
animals to other zoos.
   ``It is just that after 22 years, it makes no sense whatsoever
to uproot this orangutan, subspecies or no subspecies.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0179 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 2044EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u i AM-GulfRdp 1stLd-Writethru a0698 06-20 0742</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Gulf Rdp, 1st Ld-Writethru, a0698,0761</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Rebels Claim Iranian Helicopter Shot Down; U.S. Envoy In Abu Dhabi</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: New throughout to UPDATE with Iranian rebels taking captured
Iranian arms back to Iraq; U.S. envoy arrives in United Arab
Emirates; France takes carrier out of Arabian Sea. EDITS to TRIM.
No pickup.</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By NEIL MacFARQUHAR</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>NICOSIA, Cyprus (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Iranian rebels who captured a town just
inside Iran said they shot down an Iranian helicopter on Monday
that tried to attack their positions. Both sides reported heavy
fighting.
   Elsewhere in the Persian Gulf region, U.S. envoy Richard Murphy
arrived in the United Arab Emirates on Monday to discuss ways to
bring a Middle East peace settlement and an end to the Iran-Iraq
war.
   And sources said France has quietly withdrawn an aircraft
carrier from the Arabian Sea, outside the gulf, as part of Paris'
agreement with Iran to restore diplomatic relations earlier this
month.
   A statement from the National Liberation Army, an Iranian rebel
group based in Iraq, said its units around the town of Mehran shot
down an Iranian Cobra helicopter with anti-aircraft fire. Mehran is
100 miles east of Baghdad, the Iraqi capital, and about 4 miles
from the border.
   The rebels, also known as the Mujahedeen Khalq, captured Mehran
hours after they began an offensive at midnight Saturday. The
rebels on Monday sent captured Iranian tanks and other military
hardware back to Iraq.
   Statements said the rebels, estimated in the thousands, engaged
two divisions of Iranian Revolutionary Guards totaling about 14,000
troops.
   The rebels claimed 6,000 Iranian soldiers were killed or wounded
and about 1,500 captured. They said 57 of their own were killed and
120 seriously wounded.
   Mehran has been largely deserted since the early days of the
Iran-Iraq war, which began in September 1980, and has changed hands
at least five times.
   At U.N. headquarters in New York, Iraq said Monday that the
force crossing the border to take Mehran consisted entirely of
Iranians. It called the battle ``an internal Iranian affair.''
   Tehran's news reports late Monday made little reference to
Mehran, except to say its warplanes attacked Iraqi positions five
times.
   A communique carried by the official Islamic Republic News
Agency said: ``Iran's Moslem combatants continued their battles
with Iraqi troops with artillery, mortar and heavy weaponry.''
   The agency, monitored in Nicosia, reported ground fighting
inside Iraq along the central part of the 730-mile-border war front.
   It said Iraqi warplanes were spotted Monday over the central
city of Ilam and over Kurdistan in the north. It said a Kurdish
rebel group in northern Iraq mined the Kolikan-Erbil road and
destroyed two truckloads of Iraqi weapons.
   Iraq said Monday its aircraft flew 406 sorties _ 119 by jet
aircraft and 287 by helicopter gunships.
   Although the number of missions by gunships was well below the
433 reported Sunday, their activity still indicated a high level of
fighting on the ground.
   Murphy, the assistant U.S. secretary of state in charge of
Middle East affairs, said the United States hopes to convene an
international peace conference on the Middle East ``as soon as
possible,'' the official United Arab Emirates news agency reported.
   The envoy, in the Emirates for a one-day visit, also is
discussing how to push through a peaceful end to the Iran-Iraq war
on the basis of U.N. Security Council Resolution 598 passed in July
last year.
   The eight-nation tour will take Murphy to Iraq, which has
expressed willingness to implement the resolution.
   The 32,780-ton French carrier Clemenceau was pulled out of the
gulf region in the past few weeks and a will not be replaced in the
foreseeable future, according to the French sources who spoke on
condition of anonymity.
   The withdrawal of the Clemenceau leaves France with about 10
warships in the gulf and nearby waters. These include four
destroyers, three frigates and a pair of minesweepers.
   French sources said Iranian officials pressed for the removal of
the Clemenceau as part of the agreement under which the two
countries restored diplomatic relations last week after an 11-month
break.
   The 40th U.S. Navy-escorted convoy of the year was due to leave
the gulf on Monday. The group included the 290,085-ton supertanker
Middletown, the 79,999-ton tanker Ocean City and the Gas King, a
46,723-ton liquefied gas carrier.
   The U.S. Navy began escorting 11 U.S.-flagged Kuwaiti tankers in
July last year to protect them from attack by Iran, which considers
Kuwait an ally of Iraq.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0180 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 2058EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i AM-Iran-Iraq     06-20 0616</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Iran-Iraq,0637</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Rebels Battle Iranian Forces, Bring Captured Arms Back To Iraq</HEAD>
<HEAD>LaserPhotos LON5,7</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By JERRFREY ULBRICH</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>BADRAH, Iraq (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Iranian rebel fighters based in Iraq battled
Iranian government forces Monday and gathered up millions of
dollars in military booty after their capture of a border town in
Iran.
   The rebels said their fighters shot down a Cobra helicopter of
the Iranian air force that tried to attack their positions near the
town of Mehran, which they captured Sunday.
   Mehran is about six miles east of this Iraqi town and 90 miles
from the Iraqi capital, Baghdad.
   Leaders of the National Liberation Army, as the rebel force is
called, said they have no intention of holding Mehran, which has no
civilian population and is largely a pile of rubble and bent palm
trees.
   Mehran itself was lightly held and resistance was minimal, but
fighting for the positions in the foothills of the Kani Sakht
mountains to the north was reported fierce.
   Occasional shellfire could still be heard Monday from Badrah.
   The rebels worked feverishly Monday hauling massive amounts of
captured military gear back across the border to a rear staging
point in Badrah.
   The National Liberation Army claims to have killed or wounded as
many as 6,000 Iranian government troops in Sunday's operation. They
acknowledged 57 dead of their own and 120 seriously wounded.
   Those figures were impossible to verify independently, but more
than 1,500 Iranian prisoners were brought to Badrah on Monday. They
sat in rank after rank in a large courtyard.
   Not far away, scores of tanks, artillery pieces, anti-aircraft
and anti-tank weapons, tons of small arms, machine guns and other
equipment were being dumped in a huge holding area.
   The road to the holding area was filled with a steady stream of
trucks dragging the equipment back.
   An Iranian colonel squatting in the dust with the other
prisoners and identifying himself as the deputy chief of staff of
the 16th armored division said he was astonished at the rapidity of
the rebel action.
   ``We were in a state of alert,'' said Col. Ali Akbar Golamrezai,
43. ``Until the night of the operation there had been no sign of
movement in front of us. We expected a patrol to try a skirmish,
not an attack of such a size.''
   Among the captured equipment were 30 tanks, 25 155mm
self-propelled howitzers, two 130mm cannons, six Katyusha rockets,
cases of Sam 7 anti-aircraft missiles, 81mm mortars, 19
four-barreled anti-aircraft guns, five armored personnel carriers,
six 106mm recoilless rifles, 25 jeeps and 19 trucks.
   There were heaps of small arms, radios, gas masks, helmets,
binoculars and other equipment. The hardware was seized along the
30-mile front.
   Iran acknowledged Sunday that the town had been lost but said it
was taken by Iraqi forces using chemical weapons. Iranian news
reports monitored in Cyprus Monday made little reference to Mehran,
except to say that its air force fighters attacked Iraqi positions
around the town five times.
   The war communique carried by the Islamic Republic News Agency
said: ``Iran's Muslim combatants continued their battles with Iraqi
troops with artillery, mortar and heavy weaponry.''
   The National Liberation Army, mostly members or sympathizers of
the Iranian Mujahedeen Khalq organization, burst across the border
early Sunday. Its fighters, estimated in the thousands, routed two
Iranian government divisions and a brigade, about 14,000 men in
all, according to rebel officials.
   The Iraqi government reiterated its claim that the force that
crossed the border and captured Mehran was made up entirely of
disaffected Iranians and called the battle ``an internal Iranian
affair.''
   Mehran had changed hands five times in fighting between Iranian
and Iraqi troops during the nearly 8-year-old war.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0181 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 2056EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u i AM-Poland 1stLd-Writethru a0684 06-20 0579</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Poland, 1st Ld-Writethru, a0684,0592</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Solidarity Says Official Vote Estimates Too High</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: SUBS 3rd graf pvs `In the...' with 1 graf to CORRECT turnout
estimate to less than 23 percent, sted less than 22 percent.
INSERTS 1 graf after 8th pvs `Urban said...' to UPDATE with quote
from Sejm deputy. PICKS up 9th pvs bgng, Onyszkiewicz said that ...</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By JOHN DANISZEWSKI</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>WARSAW, Poland (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Government figures saying 56 percent of
the electorate voted Sunday for local and provincial People's
Councils were dramatically inflated, supporters of the Solidarity
trade union said Monday.
   The turnout figure appeared lower based on spot checks of
polling places, said Solidarity national spokesman Janusz
Onyszkiewicz.
   In the southwestern city of Wroclaw, a Solidarity-organized
monitoring operation that watched nearly 300 polling stations
concluded that less than 23 percent of voters took part, according
to opposition spokeswoman Maria Pinior.
   Even according to the official figure of 56 percent turnout
nationwide, it was the lowest turnout for any election in Poland
since the communists took power after World War II.
   The previously lowest-attended election _ a nationwide
referendum on political and economic reforms _ drew 67.3 percent of
the 26 million eligible voters last year.
   The last council elections, in 1984, attracted 75 percent of the
electorate, according to official estimates, and 56 percent,
according to the outlawed union.
   Government spokesman Jerzy Urban said before the voting that the
government would be satisfied if a majority of eligible voters
participated. Voting would not be interpreted as an indicator of
support for the government.
   Urban said poor economic conditions discouraged some people from
attending, but that the elections were a breakthrough for Poland:
the first time candidates actively campaigned for votes and the
first time since 1947 that some races were contested between people
of different parties, in about 4 percent of districts.
   Mikolaj Kozakiewicz, a deputy in the Sejm, or parliament, told
Polish TV the turnout was not a victory for the government or the
oppositon but a sign of ``social apathy, which is our most serious
disease.''
   Onyszkiewicz said that although the government attempt to
portray the election as a ``turning point, this obviously failed.
No one thinks these elections have any significance.''
   Solidarity had called for a national boycott of the vote, but it
did not attempt to monitor voting nationwide, said Onyszkiewicz.
However, some local leaderships of Solidarity did undertake vote
counts, he said.
   Solidarity activists estimated turnout in the Baltic port city
of Gdansk at 28 percent to 30 percent, and in some Warsaw districts
the numbers were around 30 percent, said Jacek Kuron, a senior
Solidarity adviser in Warsaw.
   Lech Walesa, chairman of the outlawed union, planned no comment
on the turnout, according to aide Bogdan Olszewski.
   ``If he announced (his figures) he would be a sadist,'' said
Olszewski. ``It would look like he was torturing the government.''
   Onyszkiewicz said officials' inflation of turnout figures was
``not the result of central planning, but the fact that every local
functionary is responsible for good turnout in his area. So it is
in his interest to correct the figures in a certain way.''
   He said the union's call for a boycott may have kept some people
from voting, but also that ``obviously the mechanical ritual of
voting is gradually being reduced. The barrier of fear is crumbling
down.''
   Until the 1970s, Poland reported voting turnouts of around 99
percent, and people who did not vote feared official sanctions.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0182 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 2132EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r w AM-BellAcquitted 2ndLd-Writethru a0706 06-20 0404</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Bell Acquitted, 2nd Ld-Writethru, a0706,360</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Former Attorney General Cleared in Libel Suit</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: SUBS 4th graf pvs bgng, `Bell, a,' with 3 grafs to UPDATE
with Bell comment; DELETES outdated graf 7 pvs bgng, `Bell, whose,'</NOTE>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A jury on Monday cleared former Attorney
General Griffin B. Bell in a civil suit that charged him with
libeling a former E.F. Hutton brokerage manager in a 1985 report
about the company's check-kiting practices.
   The U.S. District Court panel found that Bell, who had been
hired by Hutton to investigate the scheme after the company pleaded
guilty to mail and wire fraud charges, had not defamed John Pearce.
   Pearce, who managed Hutton branches in Bethesda, Md., and in St.
Louis, was among six Hutton officials blamed in Bell's report for
the elaborate overdrafting scheme.
   ``I never thought the thing was a case to begin with,'' Bell
said Monday night. ``From the beginning to the end there was
nothing to the case and the jury can find that.''
   The plaintiffs ``said there were 11 false statements, eight in
the report and three in my press conference,'' Bell said. The jury
``found none were false.''
   Bell, a partner in an Atlanta law firm who headed the Justice
Department during the Carter administration, conducted a
three-month investigation and exonerated top Hutton executives of
any wrongdoing. The trial on the suit began May 31.
   Pearce, now a businessman in Sarasota, Fla., claimed in the
lawsuit that Bell had ignored evidence that he and other branch
managers named in the report were only acting under instructions
from top management.
   The jury of two women and four men determined, however, that
none of the statements Bell had made about Pearce was false or
defamatory.
   Hutton hired Bell after the firm pleaded guilty May 2, 1985 to
2,000 counts of mail and wire fraud stemming from the check-kiting
scheme.
   The company, now part of Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc., agreed to
pay a $2 million fine and reimburse banks for millions of dollars
in interest lost when branch offices wrote checks against money
that had not yet been deposited in their accounts.
   Testifying at the trial, Bell strongly defended his
investigation, saying he didn't cite any top officials because all
he could prove was that senior executives didn't monitor the
activities of branch and regional offices.
   ``I thought I could catch a high person, but I never could,'' he
said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0183 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 2108EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u p AM-PoliticalRdp 2ndLd-Writethru a0742 06-20 0720</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Political Rdp, 2nd Ld-Writethru, a0742,700</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Bush, Dukakis Renew Debate Over Death-Penalty Issue</HEAD>
<NOTE>EDS: INSERTS new grafs 19-20 with Jackson in Minnesota, planned
meeting with Dukakis</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By DAVID ESPO</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>AP Political Writer</BYLINE>
<TEXT>
   George Bush and Michael Dukakis disagreed long distance over the
death penalty on Monday, with the vice president renewing his call
for capital punishment to deal with drug kingpins and the likely
Democratic presidential nominee saying he doubted it would have
much effect.
   Dukakis also took a slap at the Reagan administration's
anti-drug efforts, saying, ``There is nobody accountable. The
chairman of the committee is (Attorney General) Ed Meese. 'Nuff
said.''
   Bush, who wrapped up the Republican presidential nomination
several weeks ago, was the featured speaker at a Drug Enforcement
Administration service in Washington honoring three officers killed
in the line of duty.
   ``By design, you don't get your pictures in the paper or sit at
the head table at testimonial dinners,'' he told his audience.
``But everywhere I've gone in this country, I take time talking
about the contribution you make.''
   With the families of slain agents Paul S. Seema, George M.
Montoya and Arthur L. Cash in attendance, Bush renewed his call for
``increasing the certainty and the severity of punishment.''
   ``I really do believe the death penalty is the answer,'' he said
to a standing ovation.
   But Dukakis persisted in his opposition to the death penalty in
fielding questions at a meeting of broadcasting executives in
Boston.
   ``Have you seen any significant reduction in drug trafficking in
the states that have it? I don't,'' he said.
   Earlier, Dukakis met briefly at the Statehouse with Natan
Sharansky, a Soviet emigre and a leading activist in efforts to win
permission for Jews to leave the Soviet Union.
   Monday was his 25th wedding anniversary and Dukakis said his
wife, Kitty, was taking him out to dinner. ``That's my announcement
for today,'' Dukakis told the luncheon of broadcast executives.
   Dukakis opposes the death penalty as a matter of principle, and
Bush is expected to attempt to make their difference over the issue
into an important part of his campaign. The vice president also has
spoken critically of Dukakis' reluctance to change a Massachusetts
prison furlough program that permitted first degree murderers time
away from their cells, even after one convict raped a woman while
on furlough.
   ``I think the governor of Massachusetts owes the American people
an explanation for why he supported this outrageous program....What
did he think about when he let first-degree murderers out on
weekends,'' the vice president said recently.
   The governor moved to counter some of Bush's criticism during
the day, saying, ``I know of no responsible corrections program in
the country, with very few exceptions, that does not include
furloughs.''
   He added that Ronald Reagan supported a furlough program while
governor of California.
   Dukakis did not say so, but only a few states allow convicted
murderers out on furlough.
   Dukakis criticized the Reagan administration, saying the
president has a committee representing federal agencies as his drug
task force. He said he would appoint a czar with direct access to
the president.
   The object of a Dukakis jab _ Meese _ shared the stage with Bush
at the DEA ceremony in Washington. He praised Bush as ``the leader
in the administration ... in speaking out on behalf of the
(anti-drug) law enforcement effort.''
   Bush and Dukakis made their public appearances while Democrat
Jesse Jackson campaigned in Minnesota even though the primary
season ended two weeks ago.
   Jackson visited the drought-stricken southeastern Minnesota farm
of Dale and Nancy Snesrud and called for a moratorium on farm
foreclosures. He said farmers hurt by Reagan administration
economic and agricultural policies now have no economic cushion to
help them through the drought.
   Aides to Dukakis said the Massachusetts governor would meet with
Jackson on Tuesday in California.
   Dukakis wound up the primary season with more than enough
delegates to the Democratic National Convention to claim the
party's nomination. With public opinion polls indicating he holds a
lead over Bush, he told broadcast executives that the Democrats
have ``an extraordinary opportunity to win and to win with vision
and with strength.''
   He said he hoped to bring some of his statehouse programs with
him to Washington if elected, but added, ``I also know that being
president is not being governor.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0184 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 2132EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i AM-Israel-Missiles     06-20 0352</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Israel-Missiles,0364</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Chief Of Staff: Israel Will Strike If Syria Deploys Missiles</HEAD>
<DATELINE>JERUSALEM (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Israel will strike Syrian missile sites if
Damascus deploys new surface-to-surface missiles it reportedly is
buying from China, Israel's chief of staff said Monday.
   But Lt. Gen. Dan Shomron also downplayed the immediate threat of
the missiles, saying Syria mainly sought the new weapons as a
deterrent against an Israeli attack.
   The news magazine Newsweek this week quoted an unidentified
senior Reagan administration official as saying China planned to
sell Syria its newest M-9 missiles, which have a range of 370 miles.
   ``If they haven't signed already, it's only days away,'' the
official was quoted as saying.
   Syria can already hit most Israeli cities with its Soviet-made
Frog-7, SS-1 and SS-21 surface-to-surface missiles which have a
range of 35, 160 and 60 miles respectively.
   Israel television said the new M-9 missiles could be placed
deeper inside Syrian territory, making retaliation more difficult.
   ``The role of this weapon in the arsenal of the Arab states,
especially of Syria, is to deter us (in case of war) from
continuing our attack that would lead to the collapse of the Syrian
army,'' Shomron said in a speech at Haifa University.
   Shomron said the M-9 missiles could not decide the outcome of a
war, but that, especially if equipped with chemical warheads, could
cause extensive damage.
   Shomron said Israel would respond to the deployment of such
missiles in various ways, including an attack on the Syrian missile
sites.
   ``In addition, we also have the ability to develop means of
intercepting surface-to-surface missiles,'' he was quoted as saying
by Israel television.
   Israel is working with the United States on an anti-tactical
ballistic missile as part of the Strategic Defense Initiative
program, known as Star Wars.
   Foreign Minister Shimon Peres told Parliament's Defense and
Foreign Affairs Committee that Israel is doing everything possible
to prevent the missiles from reaching Syria, Israeli radio said.
   The report did not elaborate.
   Israel reportedly has developed its own surface-to-surface
missile, the Jericho, which has a range of 930 miles. Israeli
officials refuse to confirm these reports.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0185 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 2133EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i AM-Iran-Britain     06-20 0355</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Iran-Britain,0367</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Iran Advises Britain To Shun Washington</HEAD>
<DATELINE>NICOSIA, Cyprus (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A high Iranian official meeting with a
British parliamentary delegation in Tehran on Monday said the
British government should avoid linking itself with U.S. policies
toward Iran.
   Mahdi Karrubi, deputy speaker of the Iranian Parliament, told
the four British lawmakers their country should ``shun complicity
with Washington's hostile policies against the Islamic
Revolution,'' the official Islamic Republic News Agency reported.
   The agency, monitored in Nicosia, said Britain's condemnation of
Iraq's use of chemical weapons was a ``positive'' sign.
   ``This act can influence the outlook of the Islamic Republic
officials and people towards Britain,'' the report quoted Karrubi
as saying.
   The four arrived in the capital on Monday, the agency reported,
on a private trip arranged by Archbishop of Canterbury Robert
Runcie. The visit was privately arranged by the Church of England
at the invitation of the Iranian government, Runcie said last week.
   In a two-paragraph report, the agency said the British
parliamentarians were scheduled to hold talks with senior Iranian
officials during their three-day visit.
   It gave no details. But the British legislators said before they
left London they hoped to see Iran's Parliament speaker, Hashemi
Rafsanjani, the most powerful figure in the country after
revolutionary patriarch Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini.
   The lawkmakers cautioned before they left London against raising
hopes their visit could lead to the release of British hostages
held by pro-Iranian Shiite Moslem factions in Lebanon.
   Three Britons are among 18 foreign hostages held in Lebanon.
Among the nine Americans in the group is Terry Anderson, the
longest held hostage. Anderson, chief Middle East correspondent for
The Associated Press, was abducted in Beirut on March 16, 1985.
   Britain's relations with Tehran have been strained since
Khomeini's 1979 Islamic revolution toppled the late Shah Mohammed
Reza Pahlavi.
   The Iranians have long considered Britain to rank second to
``the Great Satan,'' as Iran usually calls the United States, as a
hostile Western nation.
   The British delegation includes Cyril Townsend and Robert Hicks
of Britain's governing Conservative Party; Thomas Clarke of the
opposition Labor Party and Lord Tordoff of the liberal Social
Democrats.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0186 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 2136EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a AM-People-Day     06-20 0225</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-People-Day,0231</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Singer Dennis Day Released to Go Home, Still Critical</HEAD>
<DATELINE>SANTA MONICA, Calif. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Dennis Day, the Irish tenor of radio
and television fame, was sent home Monday from St. John's Hospital
and Health Center, although he remains in critical condition, a
hospital spokesman said.
   ``According to his physician, he was discharged because his care
can be continued in a home setting,'' said Armen Markarian, a
hospital spokesman. ``He's surrounded by his family there, and
he'll be more comfortable in a home setting.''
   Day was admitted to Saint John's on June 5, and continues to
suffer from a recurrence of pressure on the brain, publicist Kitty
Davis said.
   The 71-year-old singer was diagnosed last summer as suffering
from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, a progressively degenerative
nerve disorder also known as Lou Gehrig's disease.
   On March 9, Day suffered a head injury in a fall at his Bel Air
home, and underwent emergency treatment to relieve the pressure
caused by bleeding in the brain. He remained in the hospital until
April 12, Markarian said.
   Day appeared regularly with comedian Jack Benny on radio and
television as well as in films.
   Born Eugene Denis McNulty in New York, he assumed the name
Dennis Day when he joined Benny's radio show as a singer in 1939
and quickly grew into a comic foil for the host.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0187 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 2140EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i AM-Peru-Violence     06-20 0355</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Peru-Violence,0364</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Police Say Leftist Rebels Kill 11 Peasants</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By MONTE HAYES</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>LIMA, Peru (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Heavily armed police searching for leftist
guerrillas blocked major highways leading into the capital before
dawn Monday and arrested more than 1,300 suspects after scattered
bomb attacks, officials said.
   In the highlands, guerrillas of the Maoist Shining Path movement
killed 11 peasants and wounded two, police said.
   The arrests in Lima were aimed at blunting rebel attacks
commemorating the second anniversary of prison riots that left
hundreds of guerrilla inmates dead, officials said.
   In the southern Andes Mountains, stronghold of the Shining Path,
a column of rebels disguised in military uniforms seized the
village of Cuticsa. The rebels accused villagers of being
government collaborators and killed 11 peasants and wounded two,
police said.
   The attack on Cuticsa, 180 miles southeast of Lima, occurred at
sunset Friday, but authorities did not learn of it until Monday
because the village is isolated, police said.
   The massive interception of traffic in Lima came hours after
rebels bombed police stations and a municipal headquarters Sunday
night in attacks that coincided with the anniversary of the prison
killings.
   Police erected roadblocks on major avenues late Sunday night and
early Monday, stopped buses and private cars and arrested anyone
who did not have proper identification papers, officials said.
   A 15-year-old boy was injured in the legs Sunday night when he
tried to put out a burning stick of dynamite that was left near a
suburban Lima police station, police said. Minor damage but no
injuries were reported in the other bombings.
   The Shining Path, a dogmatic rebel group, has been fighting
since 1980 to overthrow Peru's elected government and install a
peasant and worked state based on the ideas of China's Mao
Tse-tung. More than 10,000 people have died in the violence.
   On June 19, 1986 security forces killed more than 250 guerrilla
inmates during prison riots. The government has admitted that at
least 100 of the prisoners were executed after surrendering.
   The Shining Path declared June 19 the ``Day of Heroism'' and
vowed to seek vengeance for the prison deaths.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0188 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 2152EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a AM-FoxNetwork     06-20 0395</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Fox Network,0404</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Rupert Murdoch Says He's in Network Business For Long Haul</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: Steve Fox, 8th graf, is cq</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By JERRY BUCK</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>AP Television Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>LOS ANGELES (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Rupert Murdoch said Monday he is confident he
will successfully establish Fox Broadcasting Co. as a fourth TV
network and has ``every intention of continuing this investment for
an indefinite period.''
   Murdoch, chief executive of Fox's parent News Corp., said the
fledgling network is ``making pleasant progress, particularly on
Sunday nights where its share of audience is growing every week.''
   He responded to a report in Investor's Daily last week in which
Richard Sarazen, finance director of News Corp., was quoted as
saying the network would be shut down if results didn't improve
dramatically in the next six months.
   Fox Chairman Barry Diller said Sarazen was quoted out of context
after responding to a question about the worst-case scenario for
Fox.
   ``If somebody asks you what if it rains, that's one thing,''
Diller said. ``But if they ask you what if it rains every day for
the next 10 years, you have a different scenario.''
   Steve Fox, president and editor of Investor's Daily, said: ``I
think this is much ado about nothing. They're not saying that we
quoted Mr. Sarazen incorrectly, only that it's out of context. I
don't think it comes as a surprise that any company losing $80
million a year cannot go on indefinitely.''
   Because no one from Fox had called ``to say the story is wrong
we have no reason to change our story,'' he said.
   Sarazen said at a meeting of security analysts in New York
Thursday that Fox Broadcasting had lost $80 million last year,
which is $30 milllion more than it had anticipated losing.
Investor's Daily quoted him as saying, ``If it doesn't improve
dramatically in the next six months, we'll close it down.''
   Murdoch acknowledged Monday that ratings for the Fox network's
Saturday shows were ``disappointing.'' But he said new programs are
being produced for that night.
   ``Furthermore, we are aggressively developing programming for
additional nights,'' he said. ``We have every intention of
continuing this investment for an indefinite period and remain
confident of its ultimate success, both for itself, our own
stations and our affiliates.''
   Fox, which began its prime-time programming on Sunday and
Saturday nights more than a year ago, has 125 affiliated stations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0189 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 2158EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r i AM-SriLanka-HumanRights     06-20 0490</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Sri Lanka-Human Rights,0503</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Amnesty International Cites Reports Of Human Rights Abuses</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By DEXTER CRUEZ</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>COLOMBO, Sri Lanka (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Human rights abuses are being reported
in Sri Lanka nearly a year after the signing of a peace accord
designed to end ethnic strife, Amnesty International said in a
report released Tuesday.
   Hundreds of Sinhalese and Tamils have been detained without
charge or trial or are missing, said the London-based human rights
organization. It quoted former Tamil prisoners as saying they were
tortured.
   The report did not give precise numbers of Sinhalese but said
they included men and women and that most were suspected of
belonging to an ultra-nationalist group, the People's Liberation
Front.
   ``No substantive attempt appeared to have been made by the
government'' to determine the fate of 685 Tamils arrested between
1983 and August 1987, the organization added.
   Sinhalese comprise 75 percent of Sri Lanka's 16 million
population and dominate the government. Tamil rebels have been
waging a guerrilla war since 1983 against the government and
Sinhalese civilians, claiming discrimination and demanding autonomy.
   Amnesty International urged the Sri Lankan government to
establish an independent body to investigate all complaints of
human rights abuses by Sri Lankan security forces and Indian troops.
   There was no immediate response from President Junius R.
Jayewardene's government on the report. Foreign Ministry officials
said they had not yet seen the report and refused to comment.
Interior Minister Lalith Athulathmudali, who is in charge of
internal security, could not be immediately located for comment.
   On July 30, 1987, Sri Lanka and neighboring India signed a peace
accord aimed at ending the Tamil insurgency, and India dispatched
peacekeeping troops to enforce the accord.
   The pact spurred a backlash by Sinhalese nationalists who said
too many concessions were being offered to Tamils, who make up 18
percent of the population.
   Amnesty said it also had received reports that Indian soldiers
committed rapes and other acts of brutality and killed unarmed
civilians in several reprisal attacks.
   Such accusations have been made repeatedly by the Tamil rebels.
   An Indian Foreign Ministry spokesman in New Delhi, speaking on
condition of anonymity, said Monday that charges contained in
Amnesty International's report were ``fabricated'' and ``unfair.''
   Amnesty's report included graphic descriptions and photographs
submitted by Tamil men who said Sri Lankan security forces beat
them with clubs and crowbars, burned them with cigarettes and
molten plastic and hung them by their thumbs or toes.
   Some freed prisoners reported seeing fellow detainees killed and
their bodies buried in unmarked graves, Amnesty said.
   Amnesty International said the Sri Lankan government had refused
to receive a delegation from the human rights organization in
April. It said this was especially disturbing because Jayewardene
said in an interview with the British Broadcasting Corp. in
February that such a visit would be permitted.
   In the past, Sri Lankan officials have said people should
complain to local courts instead of to Amnesty International.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0190 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 2212EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a AM-NukeTests     06-20 0294</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Nuke Tests,0300</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Two Nuclear Weapons to Be Detonated Simultaneously</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By ROBERT MACY</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>LAS VEGAS, Nev. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Two nuclear weapons will be detonated
simultaneously Wednesday in an experiment carried out only a few
times in 43 years of testing, the Energy Department announced.
   The announcement came Monday as 25 Soviet nuclear scientists
arrived at the secret Nevada Test Site to join eight other Soviets
preparing for a series of joint experiments this summer.
   The test is scheduled to be conducted at 7 a.m. in a 750-foot
vertical shaft drilled in Yucca Flat, about 85 miles northwest of
Las Vegas.
   Energy Department spokesman Jim Boyer said the two devices will
have a combined yield of less than 150 kilotons, but refused to
disclose the size of each device.
   The atomic bomb that destroyed Hiroshima, Japan, had an
explosive force of 20 kilotons, or 20,000 tons of TNT. All tests
are listed as less than 20 kilotons, or 20 to 150 kilotons.
   Boyer said the simultaneous test of two devices had been
conducted only once in the past 20 years.
   The scheduled test will be carried out about 20 miles from
Mercury, Nev., a tiny community where the 33 Soviet nuclear
scientists and technicians are based. The scientists are at the
remote desert site to prepare for a blast in mid-August that will
determine the ability of the Soviet Union and the United States to
measure the size of each other's nuclear tests.
   The devices will be the sixth and seventh tested this year at
the Nevada site. Six of the Soviet scientists have been at the
Nevada site for three of those previous tests. Wednesday's tests
will bring to 682 the number of devices tested at the remote desert
site.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0191 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 2219EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u a AM-ChemicalFire 1stLd-Writethru a0777 06-20 0559</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Chemical Fire, 1st Ld - Writethru, a0777,0568</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Four-Day-Old Blaze Quelled, Residents Allowed To Return</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: Subs grafs 4-5 bgng ``No damage'' with three grafs to UPDATE
with all residents returning, crews working into the night to
remove containers. Picks up 6th graf pvs ``My roses.''</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By TRUDY TYNAN</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>SPRINGFIELD, Mass. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Firefighters poured neutralizing
chemicals on barrels of chloride, and cheering residents returned
home Monday after a four-day fire that spewed poisonous gas and
forced evacuation of 25,000 people.
   ``I'd like to thank the people for the patience they have
demonstrated,'' Mayor Richard E. Neal said. ``Throughout, our
primary concern has been the public safety.''
   About 275 people were injured and thousands camped out in
shelters as explosions rocked the century-old mill housing the
Advanced Laboratories plant, which made chloride pellets for
swimming pools.
   Officials said the fire was among the worst in memory in this
city of 170,000 people. No damage estimate was available, but Neal
said city lawyers were ``agressively pursuing'' plans to recoup
expenses.
   Residents waved to police and cheered as the first school bus
with returning evacuees moved through a barricade about 1 p.m. The
last of the evacuees returned home at 6:30 p.m. and only the street
in front of the plant remained closed, Fire Commissioner Darnell L.
Williams said.
   Two fire trucks and police patrols were to remain on the scene
overnight as crews worked to remove the containers of chlorine
compounds weighing up to 300 pounds, authorities said.
   ``My roses are black and my tomatoes are dead,'' Antoinette
Harris, 37, said after returning home Monday. ``But the dog is all
right.''
   After more than 36 hours of flooding the factory with more than
6,000 gallons of water a minute, barrels of chloride stopped
exploding Monday.
   Clean-up crews then poured a solution of neutralizing chemicals
on ``hot spots'' where the chloride compounds were decomposing and
producing toxic chlorine gas.
   John Higgins, regional director of the state Department of
Environmental Quality Engineering, said firefighters shut off their
hoses briefly Sunday afternoon so officials could quickly tour the
plant, but barrels of chloride started exploding again soon
afterward.
   Hoses from all city pumpers flooded the building until 6:15 a.m.
Monday. By 8 a.m., no barrels had exploded, and the neutralizing
mixture of boric acid and sodium sulfate was poured onto the
remaining chloride barrels, some of which were bubbling.
   State-contracted clean-up crews gingerly removed more than 8,000
pounds of chlorine-containing compounds left in the building as
firefighters stood by Monday afternoon.
   The material was taken to the city's sewage treatment plant and
used in lieu of the chlorine the city normally buys for the
facility, Higgins said. ``At least that way the city can get back
some of the money it's spent,'' he said.
   At the fire's peak Saturday night, flames shot 100 feet in the
air and a cloud of poisonous gas 100 feet high, four blocks wide
and three miles long streamed over Springfield and into neighboring
Chicopee. The fumes could be smelled 15 miles away.
   In the cloud's path, trees and lawns were withered by the
corrosive gas.
   ``What's going to happen to my garden?'' said Wavel Watson, who
lives a few blocks from the plant. ``The annuals, the shrubs, the
lawn _ everything is withered and I just put it all in three weeks
ago.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0192 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 2227EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u a AM-GatorHunting 1stLd-Writethru a0753 06-20 0407</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Gator Hunting, 1st Ld - Writethru, a0753,0410</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>License Applications for Gator Hunting Available Again in Florida</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: Leads with two grafs to CORRECT time element and show
applications distributed last week. Picks up 3rd graf pvs.</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By BRENT KALLESTAD</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>TALLAHASSEE, Fla. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Applications for licenses to hunt
alligators are available in Florida for the first time since 1962,
when the practice was outlawed, an official said Monday.
   Dennis David, alligator program coordinator for the Florida Game
and Fresh Water Commission, said 15,000 applications were
distributed to the agency's regional offices last Wednesday and
will be available through July 15. The maximum number of licenses
to be awarded _ probably about 230 _ will be determined at the
commission's July 15 meeting in Ocala, he said.
   David said the alligator-hunting season would be restricted to
specific areas, and hunters will have a limit of 15 alligators
measuring at least four feet long.
   ``We've been conducting research on hunting since 1981,
evaluating the impact on the alligator population,'' said David.
   Gator hunting was banned because alligators' numbers were
dwindling. But David said the alligator population in Florida has
doubled since 1973 to its present total of about 1 million.
   ``It's kind of a first step for the commission to allow public
harvest of alligators in the state,'' added David. ``We hope to see
the economic value of alligators provide an economic incentive to
preserve Florida's wetlands.
   ``You're not going to stop condominiums from going in because of
alligator hunts, but it adds another reason to preserve wetland
habitats in the state.''
   Alligator hides brought a record $42.72 a linear foot in
February, said David. Those hides were sold by trappers who are
licensed under another program to catch and kill ``nuisance''
gators that get too close to homes or people. The trappers also
sell alligator meat, mostly from the tail, to restaurants.
   Public interest in the hunt increased after a 4-year-old girl
was killed by an alligator in a neighborhood lake in Southwest
Florida earlier this month. It was the sixth fatal attack by an
alligator on a human since the state began keeping such records in
1946.
   ``The number of attacks has remained relatively constant in
spite of the fact that we've had a dramatic increase in the number
of alligators and number of people in Florida,'' said David. ``Our
nuisance alligator program removes about 3,000 alligators a year in
the state.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0193 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 2230EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a BC-Theater     06-20 0580</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-Theater,0591</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>`In Pepetuity Throughout the Universe' by Eric Overmyer Opens
Off-Broadway</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: No PMs planned.</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By MICHAEL KUCHWARA</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>AP Drama Critic</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Paranoia produces profits in the dark, dangerous
world created by Eric Overmyer's ``In Perpetuity Throughout the
Universe,'' a strange, sinister comedy that arrived over the
weekend at off-Broadway's Hudson Guild Theater.
   Much of it is set in a lunatic-fringe publishing house whose
owner collects what she calls conspiracy theorists of the left and
right _ the kind of authors who believe Jimmy Hoffa is alive and
well and living in Brazil, or who whisper that the Catholic Church
killed Abraham Lincoln or who write books about Washington D.C. and
refer to it as the Zionist Occupation Government.
   The title of the play comes from book-contract lingo, having to
do with the publishing rights being wrapped up ``in perpetuity
throughout the universe.''
   Overmyer is a dazzling verbal acrobat as well as a serious
student of pop culture. Both linguist and cultural anthropologist
get a workout here. The play's language is sly and sharp, and the
comedy a mixture and appreciation of high and low brow. Sort of
like Tom Stoppard meets TV Guide.
   The heroes of ``In Perpetuity Throughout the Universe'' are the
ghostwriters employed to turn the crazy, conspiratorial ideas into
best sellers. The play focuses on three of these editors,
particularly a young woman named Christine who has been hired to
incorporate anti-Asian propaganda into a fictional potboiler called
``Yellow Emperor: the New Fu Manchu.''
   Christine's Chinese boyfriend, Dennis Wu, also works for this
publishing house. They spend their off-hours playing ``list'' games
_ people they would kill after the revolution, such as landlords,
mimes and Andrew Lloyd Webber; famous B movies like ``Faster
Pussycat, Kill, Kill'', or the names of people who have disappeared
but may not be gone, like Hoffa or D.B. Cooper.
   Dennis also becomes Christine's fantasy as she dreams about the
novel she is ghostwriting and conjures up the Fu Manchu of movie
fame, the familiar villain with long red nails and sneering smile.
   Another editor, an intense man named Lyle Vial, is obsessed by
chain letters that threaten doom for anyone who breaks the chain.
It is the ultimate paranoia. Vial at last discovers the first chain
letter, written during the Norman invasion of England, and what
happened to such medieval doubters as Thomas the Confessor when
they interrupted its good luck.
   There is a serious underpinning to all of Overmyer's high and
low-flying wit. It's expressed by Dennis in several speeches about
his past and his Chinese heritage which has either been ignored or
disparaged by the white man.
   Most of the cast has been able to negotiate Overmyer's difficult
script. Particularly successful are Carolyn McCormick as the
ghostwriter who develops a conscience and Arthur Hanket as the
chain-letter freak.
   Director Stan Wojewodski Jr. of Baltimore's Center Stage has
given the play a fluid, cinematic feeling as the short scenes blend
quickly into each other. The cold, hard-edged setting by
Christopher Barreca mirrors the play's strange, chilly world, an
environment harshly but appropriately lighted by Stephen
Strawbridge.
   In ``On the Verge,'' Overmyer's most successful play, three
Victorian ladies begin an exhilarating journey through time and
space that eventually brings them to the Brave New World of 1955.
The three editors in this play travel, too, but they are on a
darker expedition, probing the fears and prejudices of society.
Overmyer makes it a wild, unnerving ride.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0194 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 2231EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u a AM-AbductedWoman 1stLd_Writethru a0796 06-20 0471</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Abducted Woman, 1st Ld _ Writethru, a0796,0476</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Bookstore Owner Charged In Kidnapping</HEAD>
<HEAD>Eds.: Recasts lead to add that suspect was acquitted in 1971
killing; SUBS last 2 grafs bgng ``The abduction'' with 2 grafs to
elaborate on suspect's background and aquittal</HEAD>
<DATELINE>CORRY, Pa. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A bookstore owner acquitted of an Ohio man's
murder in 1971 was charged with kidnapping on Monday in the
abduction of a bank branch manager's wife who was found dead after
a failed attempt to ransom her.
   David C. Copenhefer, 41, was being held in Erie County Jail
under $100,000 bond in the kidnapping of Sally Weiner, 37.
Investigators said they believe she was abducted Friday afternoon
at Corry Plaza, where Copenhefer operates Corry Books & Cards.
   She apparently was lured to the plaza on the pretense of
planning a civic tribute to her husband, Pennbank's Corry branch
manager, Harry Weiner, investigators said.
   Mrs. Weiner was shot in the back of the head and left near an
abandoned gas well on a farm five miles northwest of Corry, where a
farmer found her Sunday.
   Police declined to say what led them to Copenhefer, but served
search warrants on him at 2 a.m. Monday. Local and state police and
FBI agents were seen at Copenhefer's home, confiscating armloads of
guns, including high-powered automatic rifles, and a personal
computer, desktop printer and computer printouts from his business.
   Copenhefer surrendered and was arraigned on charges of
kidnapping, attempted robbery and attempted extortion.
   No homicide charge was filed. Authorities said their
investigation was continuing and that further charges were pending.
   Copenhefer has lived in Corry since September, when he left
Greenfield, Ohio, where police said he managed a grocery store.
   Mrs. Weiner last spoke to her husband Friday afternoon when she
called him at his office. Sounding as if she were reading a
statement, the woman warned that her captors would kill her unless
Weiner followed instructions in a note in the bank parking lot,
according to Pennbank President Thomas Doolin.
   Weiner obeyed, going alone to an isolated rendezvous carrying an
unspecified amount of money. But no one approached him and he left
two hours later. There was no further contact from Mrs. Weiner or
her captor.
   The abduction and killing shocked this quiet community of about
7,100 people in northwest Pennsylvania, where Copenhefer and his
wife moved from Greenfield, Ohio, a small town about 50 miles
northeast of Cincinnati. The couple moved to Corry about a month
after their three-bedroom ranch home was severely damaged by fire.
   In August 1971, Copenhefer was acquitted of the shooting death
of a former seminary student from Kettering, Ohio. John L. Calkins'
bullet-riddled body was found three days after being insured for
$550,000 in accidental death policies paid by Copenhefer, who was
listed as a beneficiary on all but one policy.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0195 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 2253EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a AM-Japan-Poll     06-20 0547</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Japan-Poll,0560</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Poll: Japanese View of Relations With U.S. Improves</HEAD>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A majority of Japanese surveyed describe
relations between their country and the United States as friendly,
a reversal of the opinions found last year, according to results of
a poll released Monday.
   However, the Japanese are still much more negative about
relations between the two countries than they were three years ago,
according to the CBS News-Tokyo Broadcasting System Poll.
   The poll found that 54 percent of Japanese surveyed termed
relations with the United States as ``friendly,'' while 43 percent
said they were ``unfriendly.'' In 1987, 43 percent said they were
``friendly'' and 55 percent said they were ``unfriendly.''
   In 1985, the breakdown was 73 percent saying ``friendly'' and 21
percent ``unfriendly.''
   The current poll found Americans' opinions about bilateral
relations to be more positive than the Japanese view: 73 percent of
those surveyed answered ``friendly'' and 17 percent said
``unfriendly.''
   The survey also found that one-third of the Japanese interviewed
said their personal feelings about the United States were
unfriendly _ twice as high as the proportion of unfriendly opinions
reported among American respondents.
   Despite their positive opinions, the poll found Americans are
clearly concerned about trade with Japan. Almost the same
proportion of Americans surveyed said trade with Japan is bad for
the American economy (41 percent) as those who said it is good (42
percent).
   The poll found that respondents in both countries cited Japanese
government restrictions on imports of U.S. goods as the main reason
more U.S. goods are not sold in Japan. Forty-seven percent of
Americans surveyed cited the Japanese restrictions, and 46 percent
of the Japanese. Last year, 48 percent of Japanese surveyed said
the main reason was that U.S. goods were of lower quality.
   According to the poll, substantial numbers of Americans (41
percent) and Japanese (55 percent) think Japan should deal with the
trade imbalance by increasing its imports, rather than by
decreasing its exports. Sixty-six percent of the Japanese surveyed
said the United States should increase its exports to Japan, while
41 percent of the Americans said the United States should
concentrate on reducing Japanese imports.
   The poll also found:
   _Respondents in both countries _ 55 percent in the United
States, 88 percent in Japan _ agreed that blue-collar workers in
Japan work harder than their American counterparts.
   _Seventy-one percent of Americans and 74 percent of Japanese
surveyed would choose to buy a car made in their own countries. But
as a second choice, while 16 percent of Americans surveyed opted
for a Japanese car, 20 percent of the Japanese preferred a German
car.
   _Fewer than 1 percent of the Americans surveyed could name the
current Japanese prime minister, Noboru Takeshita. Nine out of 10
Japanese surveyed could name the president of the United States.
What's more, while 59 percent of the Japanese surveyed gave
President Reagan a favorable rating, only 42 percent of the
Americans queried did the same.
   CBS News interviewed a nationwide random sample of 1,539 adults
by telephone May 14-18. The Tokyo Broadcasting System interviewed a
nationwide random sample of 1,335 adults in person May 12-18. The
sampling error was said to be plus or minus 3 percentage points for
results based on the total sample in each country.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0196 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 2257EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u a AM-PoliceKillings     06-20 0216</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Police Killings,0223</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>In Retrial, Man Convicted Of Murdering Two Policemen</HEAD>
<DATELINE>CHICAGO (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A 35-year-old ex-convict was convicted for a
second time Monday of murdering two police officers.
   The original 1983 conviction of Andrew Wilson was overtured last
year by the Illinois Supreme Court, which ruled that a confession
had been beaten out of him.
   A sentencing hearing begins Tuesday and prosecutors said they
would ask for the death penality.
   ``Let's go for it, all the way,'' said Patricia Fahey, the widow
of slain officer William Fahey.
   Fahey and Richard O'Brien were shot to death after they pulled a
car over for a traffic violation. The defense insisted Andrew
Wilson was not in the car, even though his eyeglasses were found at
the scene.
   Andrew and his brother, Jackie Wilson, were both convicted of
murder in 1983 and Andrew Wilson was sentenced to death.
   Jackie Wilson's conviction and life prison term also were
overturned because he wasn't given a separate trial. He is awaiting
a retrial.
   A witness, Derrick Martin, testified that the Wilson brothers
had let him out of a car two blocks from the shooting scene, just
before the officers were shot.
   Martin said Andrew Wilson had said he wanted to get some police
uniforms to help a friend escape from jail.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0197 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 2316EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u i AM-Afghanistan 1stLd-Writethru a0739 06-20 0597</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Afghanistan, 1st Ld-Writethru, a0739,0610</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Guerrillas Claim Government Bombs Provincial Capital</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: LEADS with 8 grafs to UPDATE with rebels reporting
Soviet-Afghan air strikes on provincial capital claimed by rebels;
CORRECT that this is not Wilson's first trip. PICKUP 5th graf pvs
`Irshad Ahmed...'; DELETES 12th graf pvs `The guerrillas...' to
CONFORM.</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By KATHY GANNON</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>ISLAMABAD, Pakistan (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   An Afghan resistance spokesman said
Monday that Soviet-Afghan forces launched aerial bombing attacks on
a southern provincial capital in an attempt to drive the guerrillas
from the city.
   Asim Nasser-Zia, with the National Islamic Front of Afghanistan,
said saturation bombing began Sunday on Afghan resistance positions
around the Zabul provincial capital of Kalat, about 210 miles south
of the Afghan capital of Kabul.
   A rebel report reaching Islamabad on Monday claims the
guerrillas repulsed Afghan government attempts to reinforce less
than 400 troops in a fort on the outskirts of Kalat, which lies on
the strategic highway linking Kabul with Kandahar, the country's
second-largest city.
   The guerrillas said they took Kalat over the weekend, scoring
their first urban victory of the 8-year-old war.
   In other developments, a Pakistani journalist traveling with
Afghan guerrillas died in fighting with Marxist government troops
near Afghanistan's second-largest city, the reporter's family said
Monday.
   There also were reports of a U.S. congressman's foray across the
border and an exchange of Soviet prisoners of war for Afghan
guerrillas.
   U.S. Rep. Charles Wilson, D-Texas, a staunch supporter of the
guerrillas, slipped into Afghanistan during the first week of June
to pose for CBS News' 60 Minutes, said an informed source on
condition he not be identified.
   Wilson's one-day foray took him less than 12 miles into eastern
Afghanistan. He also spent four days in the region in February 1987.
   Irshad Ahmed, a 25-year-old Pakistani reporter for the
English-language opposition daily The Muslim, died Saturday near
Kandahar, a family member confirmed.
   He is the first Pakistani journalist to die covering the war. At
least seven Western journalists have been killed.
   Ahmed reportedly was killed when Afghan troops opened fire on
guerrillas near Kandahar Airport, southeast of the city, said
Mushtaq Ahmed, an assistant editor for the Muslim. He is not
related to the reporter.
   Kandahar, about 310 miles southwest of Kabul, the capital, has
been under siege by the Moslem rebels for the past four weeks.
Western diplomats said fierce fighting delayed a planned withdrawal
of Soviet troops from that city earlier this month under terms of
the April 14 accord signed in Geneva.
   A guerrilla group reported swapping a Soviet lieutenant Friday
near Kandahar for seven guerrillas, including a commander and a
fighter from an unidentified Arab country who was captured five
years ago.
   Sulamain Shah, with the Ittehad-i-Islami, a fundamentalist group
within the seven-party rebel alliance, said the Soviet officer was
captured this year. The Soviet Union claims 311 of its soldiers are
missing in Afghanistan.
   Earlier, the alliance said Soviet prisoners would remain in
guerrilla hands to be used in future negotiations should Afghan
President Najib or other high-ranking Afghan government members
seek asylum in East Bloc countries.
   Resistance leaders seeking to establish a government inside
Afghanistan announced their 14-member Cabinet on Sunday, which
contained both moderates and fundamentalists.
   Ahmad Shah, the president, is a member of the fundamentalist
Ittehad party. The vice president, Dr. Zabihullah Mojadiddi, is a
graduate of the University of Hawaii and a member of the moderate
National Liberation Front.
   Shah said an election will be held within 90 days inside
Afghanistan and among the estimated 5 million Afghan refugees
living in Pakistan and Iran.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0198 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 2318EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u a AM-Reed     06-20 0342</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Reed,0352</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>State NAACP President Indicted A Second Time</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By MARVIN HARRIS</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>MONTGOMERY, Ala. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A grand jury Monday indicted state Rep.
Thomas Reed, the state NAACP president, on charges of accepting
$10,000 to secure the parole or early release of a convicted
murderer.
   The Montgomery County grand jury charged that Reed agreed to use
his position as a member of the Legislature's Joint Prison
Committee to get Anthony Dennis Chesser an early release and parole.
   A federal grand jury Thursday indicted Reed on charges of
accepting more than $15,000 in cash and restaurant equipment to
secure the early release of the same inmate. Chesser is serving a
40-year sentence for the murder of his wife in Russell County in
1984.
   Reed, 60, said earlier that the federal investigation stemmed
from his attempt this year to have the Confederate battle flag
removed from atop the Capitol dome. Federal prosecutors denied
Reed's claim.
   A longtime leader of the National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People, Reed was one of 14 black state
legislators arrested Feb. 2 when they tried to scale a fence around
the state Capitol to remove the flag.
   Reed surrendered Monday to the sheriff's office and was freed on
a $5,000 appearance bond, said District Attorney Jimmy Evans.
   Efforts to reach Reed for comment Monday were unsuccessful, and
a person who answered the phone at his home said he was not there.
   After federal indictments were handed down last week, Reed had
said he would have no comment other than to reiterate his innocence.
   If convicted of the state charges, Reed could be sentenced to up
to 10 years in prison and fined up to $5,000.
   The federal indictment charges Reed with two counts of violating
the Hobbs Act through extortion and three counts of violating the
Interstate Travel Act by using the highways between Tuskegee and
Columbus, Ga., as well as an interstate telephone call to obtain
$10,000 in cash from Chesser's parents.
   Reed has several business interests, including a fried chicken
restaurant.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0199 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0630EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a PM-DigestBriefs     06-20 0589</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Digest Briefs,0610</2ND_LINE>
<BYLINE>By The Associated Press</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>LONDON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, always more
respected by Britons than liked, is antagonizing both her
traditional critics and supporters as her right-wing revolution
confronts the cherished welfare state.
   But despite parliamentary rebellions, public weariness with her
combative style and polls showing widespread dislike of key aspects
of her policies, her dominance of her Conservative Party and the
country appears unchallenged.
   The polls show why: Most Britons feel they are better off, and
most believe that _ like it or not _ Mrs. Thatcher's recipe for a
free-enterprise society and ending the ``dependency culture'' will
improve the economy in the long term.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   City, farm and industrial waste continues to
pour into the nation's rivers and streams even as the waterways
shrivel from drought, increasing the danger of contaminated water
across the country.
   Drought has reduced the Mississippi River to its lowest flow in
years and dropped the St. Lawrence below normal for the first time
in two decades, according to the U.S. Geological Survey.
   Low stream flows are reported in the Northwest and Southeast,
the Great Plains and in California _ threatening drinking water and
aquatic life, scientists warn.
   Ben Jones, assistant regional hydrologist for the Geological
Survey in Menlo Park, Calif., said ``common sense would tell you
that if you have less flow in a stream, there is less dilution of
whatever components are being carried by that stream.''
   He cited recent complaints from Northern California that large
concentrations of sewage discharge have appeared in streams.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>TAMPA, Fla. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Word that rapist-mutilator Lawrence Singleton
has moved to a quiet neighborhood here has triggered fear and
outrage mirroring the reaction in six California towns he was
forced to flee after his parole last year.
   People are collecting petition signatures, and have called a
meeting for tonight in hopes of getting Singleton to leave. A radio
station and a car dealership have offered the Tampa native $10,000
and a one-way ticket to clear out.
   ``A lot of people around here are angry, hostile and afraid. We
want to avoid vigilante behavior and mistakes,'' said Art Lawrence,
a parole officer and father of two teen-agers in the Forest Hills
neighborhood.
   Singleton, 60, gave authorities a Forest Hills address last week
in complying with state law requiring felons moving to Florida to
register a residence. The address belongs to Singleton's brother,
Walter.
   Walter Singleton says his brother isn't living with him and
won't reveal where he is. However, some residents are convinced
Lawrence Singleton is living in their quiet, middle-class
neighborhood.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>LOWELL, Mass. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   For nearly two decades the only memorial to
``beat generation'' author Jack Kerouac in his hometown was his
grave, where fans left offerings like a bottle of burgundy wine,
two cigarettes and a wilted rose.
   This week, the first official Kerouac memorial in Lowell will be
dedicated with a gathering of boyhood friends and writers like
Allen Ginsberg who, with Kerouac, expressed disillusionment with
mainstream America in the 1950s.
   ``Kerouac is to Lowell, as Thoreau is to Concord or Steinbeck is
to Salinas (Calif.),'' said Paul Marion, cultural affairs directors
for the Lowell Historic Preservation Commission, which coordinated
construction of the memorial. ``It will be a focal point for the
pilgrims.''
   The $100,000 memorial is an arrangement of 3-by-8-foot granite
panels bearing 15 passages from some of Kerouac's 20 books and
essays, including the so-called Lowell novels ``Doctor Sax,'' ``The
Town and the City'' and the classic ``On the Road.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0200 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1956EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r a AM-DigestBriefs     06-20 1206</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Digest Briefs,1258</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>Eds: This package does not contain the following items from the
News Digest: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti _ Haiti; TORONTO _ Summit Rdp;
UNDATED _ Drought Rdp; WASH _ Drought History; JERUSALEM _ Israel;
NICOSIA, Cyprus _ Gulf Rdp; UNDATED _ Political Rdp; DUBLIN,
Ireland _ Irish.</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By The Associated Press</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The CIA's former station chief in Costa Rica
was indicted Monday on charges he participated in an illegal
conspiracy to arm the Nicaraguan rebels and lied to his superiors
to keep the operation secret.
   Joseph F. Fernandez, 51, also known as Tomas Castillo, was
charged with helping former National Security Council aide Oliver
L. North and arms dealer Richard V. Secord ship arms to the Contras
in 1986 when Congress had banned U.S. military assistance to the
rebels.
   The five-count indictment also charges that Fernandez obstructed
the Iran-Contra investigation conducted last year by the
presidential commission headed by former Sen. John Tower, R-Texas,
by stating falsely that he did not know that North was involved in
covert aid to the Contras or that supplies Fernandez helped deliver
included weapons and ammunition.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The Supreme Court gave cities and states a
major victory Monday in their escalating legal assault on exclusive
membership policies in private clubs, unanimously upholding a New
York City law that bans such discrimination.
   The court said the city's law, aimed at large clubs that exclude
women and minorities as members, is constitutional.
   ``The law merely prevents an association from using race, sex or
other specified characteristics as shorthand measures in place of
what the city considers to be more legitimate criteria for
determining membership,'' Justice Byron R. White wrote for the
court.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A Republican senator on Monday rebuked the
Justice Department for halting 1985 testimony he said would have
revealed how defense contractors and private consultants were
illegally obtaining Pentagon weapons secrets.
   Sen. Charles E. Grassley, R-Iowa, said in a Senate floor speech
that he was duped by a top department official, who grabbed the
microphone from a Defense Department investigator about to testify
on his findings.
   The incident occurred in October 1985, and would have revealed
an alleged contract bribery scandal that became public just last
week, Grassley said.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>TORONTO (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Although the leaders of the world's most powerful
democracies meet in a summit cocoon of strict privacy, their
statements and the gist of negotiations are relayed in a
near-torrent of briefings by official spokesmen and senior advisers.
   But the picture that emerges can be as hard to fit together as a
pile of jumbled jigsaw pieces. Sometimes it's hard to believe that
all the briefers were even describing the same puzzle.
   Part of the problem is that the officials with the job of
carrying the news to some 3,000 anxious journalists are working
with second-hand information themselves. With rare exceptions, they
were not present at the discussions. The briefers had to be briefed
themselves.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>TORONTO (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Just call him Ron.
   President Reagan invoked an air of informality at his first
summit seven years ago, and is trying to keep it up at his last.
   At the outset of the Toronto meeting, Reagan told the newcomers,
Prime Ministers Noboru Takeshita of Japan and Ciriaco De Mita of
Italy, that the leaders were on a first-name basis.
   ``My name is Ron,'' White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater
quoted the president as saying.
   Fitzwater didn't say whether they took him up on it.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>MARYVILLE, Tenn. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Jack Clemmer has begun dreaming that his
drought-stricken fields are being drenched by a soft, gentle rain.
But this happy reverie turns to dust each morning, when the sun
comes streaming over the nearby Smoky Mountains.
   ``What I see when I look out my window in the morning makes me
sick to my stomach,'' says the 50-year-old Clemmer, who has been
raising cattle and crops in Blount County for the past quarter
century.
   What he sees is a rolling expanse of wilted, yellowish grass
that has been cropped to the nub by hungry cattle.
   And, lately, Clemmer has been seeing something else happening in
those seared fields, something he can hardly believe.
   ``Just look out there,'' he said Sunday afternoon while he and
some neighbors sat in the shade. ``It looks like a winter sight,
don't it? Here it is June and I'm feeding hay to my cattle.''
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>MOSCOW (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   An official said 16 people were hurt in Armenia's
first ethnic riots since a territorial dispute began with
neighboring Azerbaijan, and a tape made available Monday showed
troops patrolling the Azerbaijani capital.
   The most serious violence in the ethnic dispute occurred Feb. 28
in Sumgait, an industrial city on the Caspian Sea northwest of
Baku, capital of Azerbaijan. Thirty-two people were killed _ 26
Armenians and six Azerbaijanis _ and 200 people were injured,
according to official figures.
   Reports from the area Monday indicated tension had not reduced
since the legislatures of both southern republics acted last week
on the land dispute between the Armenians, most of whom are
Christian, and the predominantly Moslem Azerbaijanis.
</TEXT>
<BYLINE>By The Associated Press</BYLINE>
<TEXT>
   The nation's biggest dealers of Suzuki Samurais say their sales
are slowly beginning to recover from the effects of a published
report that the sporty vehicles roll over too easily.
   The top 10 dealers say their June sales will be off from as
little as a tenth to more than half because of the critical June 2
report by Consumers Union, according to a survey by The Associated
Press.
   Separately, Consumers Union said Monday that it received a June
11 letter from American Suzuki Motor Corp. demanding a retraction
of the report. Consumers Union said it rejected the request,
writing back that its report was ``wholly fair and accurate, and
based upon properly conducted tests.''
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   They were city kids on their first Cub Scout
camping trip. And when they came across a lake on a hot summer day,
they did what kids will do _ they jumped in.
   First one boy drowned, and then another, and no one seems to
know exactly how or why.
   Did Joel Nieves dive into Lake Ohrbach in grief after the body
of his friend, Luis Ruiz, was pulled from the bottom? Or did the
two 9-year-old Brooklyn boys drown together?
   ``We're in the process now of ascertaining that specific
information,'' said Deputy Inspector William Wallace, the detective
in charge of the case, as an investigation into the weekend deaths
continued Monday.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>SAN FRANCISCO (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The marriage of orangutans Josephine and
Denny is on the rocks after 19 years, and zoo officials are citing
irreconcilable genes.
   The couple hadn't been getting along anyway, but that wasn't the
reason for the breakup. A national species survival policy and
international zoo rules call for two genetic strains to be kept
separate, San Francisco Zoo Director Saul Kitchener said Monday.
   So the zoo is planning to move Josephine, a Bornean orangutan,
to the Philadelphia Zoo, where she can hook up with one of her own
kind, while Denny, a Sumatran orangutan, remains here. It was only
recently that experts became adept at determining the differences
between the two subspecies.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0201 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0927EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>a a BC-History Adv29   06-20 0461</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-History, Adv29,0481</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$Adv29</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release Wednesday, June 29</NOTE>
<HEAD>Today in History</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By The Associated Press</BYLINE>
<TEXT>
   Today is Wednesday, June 29, the 181st day of 1988. There are
185 days left in the year.
   Today's highlight in history:
   On June 29, 1767, the British Parliament approved the Townshend
Revenue Acts, which imposed import duties on glass, lead, paint,
paper and tea shipped to America. Colonists bitterly protested the
Acts, which were repealed in 1770.
   On this date:
   In 1776, the Virginia state constitution was adopted, and
Patrick Henry was made governor.
   In 1941, Polish statesman, pianist and composer Ignace
Paderewski died in New York at age 80. He received a state burial
at Arlington National Cemetery.
   In 1946, British authorities arrested more than 2,700 Jews in
Palestine in an attempt to stamp out alleged terrorism.
   In 1949, the government of South Africa began to implement its
policy of racial segregation known as apartheid with a ban on
racially-mixed marriages.
   In 1954, the Atomic Energy Commission voted against reinstating
Dr. J. Robert Oppenheimer's access to classified information.
   In 1966, the United States bombed fuel storage facilities near
the North Vietnamese cities of Hanoi and Haiphong.
   In 1967, Jerusalem was re-unified as Israel removed barricades
separating the Old City from the Israeli sector.
   In 1970, the United States ended a two-month military offensive
into Cambodia.
   In 1972, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that the way the death
penalty was usually enforced constituted ``cruel and unusual
punishment.''
   In 1982, in a White House ceremony, President Reagan signed into
law an extension of the Voting Rights Act of 1965.
   In 1984, the Soviet Union offered to begin negotiations with the
United States on banning weapons from outer space. The U.S. said
such talks would have to include curbs on all missile systems.
   Ten years ago: Vice President Walter F. Mondale began a trip to
the Middle East, carrying letters from President Jimmy Carter to
the leaders of Israel and Egypt urging a resumption of peace talks.
   Five years ago: NASA officials completed a three-month operation
to nudge a communications satellite into its proper orbit using the
satellite's steering jets. The satellite had gone into a useless,
elliptical orbit after it was launched from the space shuttle
Challenger on April 4.
   One year ago: In a surprise move, the chairman of South Korea's
ruling party, Roh Tae-woo, demanded democratic reforms of the man
he was groomed to succeed, President Chun Doo-hwan, following weeks
of violent protests that racked the country. Chun agreed two days
later.
   Today's birthdays: Actress Ruth Warrick is 73. Sen. Carl Levin
(D-Mich.) is 54. Actor Gary Busey is 44.
   Thought for today: ``A happy life is one spent in learning,
earning and yearning.'' _ Lillian Gish, American movie actress.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0202 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0929EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>a a BC-History Adv30   06-20 0546</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-History, Adv30,0568</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$Adv30</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release Thursday, June 30</NOTE>
<HEAD>Today in History</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By The Associated Press</BYLINE>
<TEXT>
   Today is Thursday, June 30, the 182nd day of 1988. There are 184
days left in the year.
   Today's highlight in history:
   Twenty-five years ago, on June 30, 1963, Pope Paul VI was
crowned the 262nd head of the Roman Catholic Church in an outdoor
ceremony at St. Peter's Square. In a homily delivered in nine
languages, the Pope said he intended to encourage ``greater mutual
comprehension, charity and peace between peoples.''
   On this date:
   In 1834, the Indian Territory was created by Congress.
   In 1859, French acrobat Emile Blondin crossed Niagara Falls on a
tightrope in front of 5,000 spectators.
   In 1870, Ada H. Kepley of Effingham, Ill., became America's
first female law school graduate.
   In 1906, the Pure Food and Drug Act and the Meat Inspection Act
became law.
   In 1934, Adolf Hitler began his ``blood purge'' of political and
military leaders in Germany. Among those killed was Ernst Roehm,
leader of the Nazi stormtroopers and Hitler's one-time ally.
   In 1936, Margaret Mitchell's novel ``Gone with the Wind'' was
published in New York.
   In 1952, ``The Guiding Light,'' a popular radio program, made
its debut as a television soap opera on CBS.
   In 1971, a Soviet space mission ended in tragedy when three
cosmonauts aboard Soyuz 11 were found dead inside their spacecraft
after returning to Earth.
   In 1971, the 26th Amendment to the Constitution, lowering the
minimum voting age to 18, was ratified as Ohio became the 38th
state to approve it.
   In 1977, President Jimmy Carter announced he had decided against
production of the B-1 bomber, saying it was too costly. The B-1 was
later revived by President Reagan.
   In 1982, the time limit for the proposed Equal Rights Amendment
to the U.S. Constitution expired, with proponents falling short of
the three additional states needed to ratify it.
   In 1985, 39 American hostages from a hijacked TWA jetliner were
freed in Beirut after being held 17 days.
   In 1986, in a 5-4 decision, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that
states could outlaw homosexual acts between consenting adults, even
in the privacy of their own homes.
   Ten years ago: Vice President Walter F. Mondale ran into both
hostile and friendly demonstrators as he began a four-day visit to
Israel to honor the Jewish state's 30th anniversary, and to
encourage resumption of stalled Mideast peace talks.
   Five years ago: The Justice Department announced it and the FBI
would conduct a formal investigation into how materials from
President Jimmy Carter's 1980 re-election campaign had gotten into
the hands of President Reagan's campaign staff.
   One year ago: The prosecutor at the trial of Klaus Barbie in
Lyon, France, denounced the crimes of the former Nazi Gestapo
official as ``particularly inhumane,'' and demanded the maximum
sentence of life in prison _ the sentence Barbie did end up
receiving.
   Today's birthdays: Actor David Wayne is 72. Singer Lena Horne is
71. Actress Nancy Dussault is 52.
   Thought for today: ``The cynic is one who never sees a good
quality in a man, and never fails to see a bad one. He is the human
owl, vigilant in darkness and blind to light.'' _ Henry Ward
Beecher, American clergyman (1813-1887).
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0203 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0930EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>a a BC-History Adv01   06-20 0552</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-History, Adv01,0574</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$Adv01</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release Friday, July 1</NOTE>
<HEAD>Today in History</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By The Associated Press</BYLINE>
<TEXT>
   Today is Friday, July 1, the 183rd day of 1988. There are 183
days left in the year. This is Canada Day.
   Today's highlight in history:
   On July 1, 1867, Canada became a self-governing dominion of
Great Britain as the British North America Act united the provinces
of Ontario, Quebec, New Brunswick and Nova Scotia.
   On this date:
   In 1535, Sir Thomas More went on trial in England, charged with
treason for rejecting the Oath of Supremacy.
   In 1690, the army of England's Protestant king, William III,
defeated forces loyal to the former Roman Catholic king, James II,
in the Battle of the Boyne in Ireland.
   In 1847, the first national adhesive postage stamps in the U.S.
were issued.
   In 1863, the Civil War Battle of Gettysburg began.
   In 1898, during the Spanish-American War, Theodore Roosevelt and
his Rough Riders waged a victorious assault on San Juan Hill in
Cuba.
   In 1916, Dwight D. Eisenhower married Mary (``Mamie'') Geneva
Doud in Denver, Colo.
   In 1932, New York Gov. Franklin D. Roosevelt was nominated for
president at the Democratic Convention in Chicago.
   In 1943, ``pay-as-you-go'' income tax withholding began for
American wage and salary earners.
   In 1966, the Medicare federal insurance program went into effect.
   In 1968, the United States, Britain, the Soviet Union and 58
other nations signed the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty.
   In 1969, Britain's Prince Charles was invested as Prince of
Wales in a ceremony at Caernarvon Castle.
   In 1977, fellow Britons cheered as tennis star Virginia Wade
received the Wimbledon women's singles trophy from Queen Elizabeth
II after defeating Betty Stove of the Netherlands.
   In 1982, more than 2,000 couples, members of the Unification
Church, were married in a mass ceremony at New York's Madison
Square Garden by the church's founder, the Rev. Sun Myung Moon.
   Ten years ago: Former President Richard M. Nixon received a warm
welcome in Hyden, Ky., where he arrived to dedicate a recreation
center named for him and make his first public speech since
resigning office in 1974.
   Five years ago: R. Buckminster Fuller, the inventor and
philosopher who designed the geodesic dome and preached technology
as the salvation of humankind, died in Los Angeles at age 87 after
suffering a heart attack at the hospital bedside of his wife.
   One year ago: President Reagan nominated U.S. Appeals Court
Judge Robert H. Bork to the U.S. Supreme Court, setting off a
tempestuous confirmation process that would culiminate in Bork's
rejection by the U.S. Senate the following October.
   Today's birthdays: Actress Olivia de Havilland is 72. Actor
Farley Granger is 63. Actress-dancer Leslie Caron is 57. Actress
Jean Marsh is 54. Film director Sydney Pollack is 54. Actor Jamie
Farr is 54. Dancer-choreographer Twyla Tharp is 47. Actress Karen
Black is 46. Actress Genevieve Bujold is 46. Actor-comedian Dan
Aykroyd is 36. Actress Lorna Patterson is 31. Singer Evelyn
``Champagne'' King is 28. Diana, Princess of Wales, is 27.
   Thought for today: ``We need the guidance of history. All our
yesterdays, it is true, have only lighted fools the way to dusty
death. But we need at least the dates of the yesterdays and the
list of the fools.'' _ Stephen Leacock, Canadian humorist and
educator (1869-1944).
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0204 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1118EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>a a PM-BusinessMirror Adv21   06-20 0547</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Business Mirror, Adv 21,0563</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$adv 21</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release PMs Tuesday June 21</NOTE>
<HEAD>Questions Surround Housing Outlook</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: Also on financial wires. John Cunniff is on vacation.</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By CHET CURRIER</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>AP Business Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The housing market is one of the major question
marks for the economy as the midpoint of 1988 approaches.
   The number of homes on which construction was started fell 12.2
percent in May after posting only modest increases in the two
previous months, according to the Commerce Department.
   And while members of the National Association of Realtors are
generally upbeat about the outlook for existing-home sales, only 40
percent of those responding to the association's annual survey in
April predicted increases in single-family home construction in the
months ahead.
   ``The housing sector is the only area of real weakness in the
current economic climate,'' say analysts at Merrill Lynch, the big
investment firm. ``But the plunge in May housing starts overstates
the case.''
   They note that starts fell in May to an annual rate of 1.38
million from an ``excessively strong'' 1.58 million pace in April.
   ``Averaging the two months gives a better sense'' of the current
climate for housing, the firm maintained. ``Housing starts could
bounce up to about a 1.48 million-unit rate in June.''
   In 1987, the government tallied 1.62 million housing starts.
   The prime variable for the housing outlook, of course, is
interest rates for mortgages and construction loans.
   Rates climbed for most of the spring. In recent weeks they have
dropped back a bit, stirring hopes for a pickup in activity.
   The typical mortgage interest rate recently stood at 10.35
percent, down from 10.58 percent at the end of May, said Smith
Barney, Harris Upham & Co. in its appraisal of the housing-starts
statistics.
   ``This decline should trigger an increase in housing activity,
as potential buyers rush to lock in fixed rates close to 10
percent,'' the firm asserted.
   The Realtors poll of more than 700 brokers and sales associates
found sales of existing homes running at about the same pace as
last year.
   Slightly more than half of the respondents _ 53 percent _ said
they expected an increase in existing-home sales between April and
October, while only 16 percent forecast a decline.
   The Realtors' report provides new evidence that home prices,
except in perhaps a few areas of the country, have not been dragged
down significantly by the steep drop in stock-market prices last
fall.
   Indeed, the Realtors say, high prices remain a formidable
obstacle for first-time home buyers. More than a quarter of the
survey participants said the typical starter resale home in their
markets costs $100,000-plus.
   And two-thirds said a typical new starter home carries a
six-figure price tag.
   All this leaves housing perched on the edge of a paradoxical
problem. If overall economic activity sets a strong pace, interest
rates could be pushed higher, putting a damper on the housing
market.
   Conversely, should the economy weaken, rates could fall and thus
stimulate home sales.
   Yet another irony: Housing is one of the favorite investments in
this country as a hedge against inflation. But it is precisely
fears of a pickup in inflation that drove long-term interest rates
(including mortgage rates) higher in recent months.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv PMs Tues June 21</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0205 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1138EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>a e PM-APonTV-PrivateNetworks Adv21   06-20 0764</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-AP on TV-Private Networks, Adv 21,0778</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$Adv21</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release Tues PMs, June 21, and Thereafter</NOTE>
<HEAD>Private TV Networks Grow as Business, Nonprofits Turn to Satellite
Video</HEAD>
<NOTE>With LaserPhoto</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By FELIX GUTIERREZ</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>LOS ANGELES (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   When Arco, JCPenney and Merrill Lynch
employees turn on their TVs, it's not always to catch the latest
``Cosby'' or ``Moonlighting.'' They may be watching their company's
own TV network to learn the latest from the boss.
   ``There are now around 45 private television networks'' run by
individual companies, said Marc Porat, head of the New York-based
Private Satellite Network. ``On top of that there are about 21
industry-wide networks'' linking members of a profession, such as
lawyers, educators and hospital staffers.
   Private TV networks are tailored to each user's need. ARCO
executives in different cities communicate through video conference
calls. Buyers for Penney's view new clothing they can stock.
Merrill Lynch brokers watch ``ActionLine,'' a weekly program on
sales techniques and new products.
   ``We've got rooms in Anchorage, Los Angeles, Dallas,
Philadelphia, Houston and Washington, D.C.,'' said Arcovision's Don
Walton. The Los Angeles-based system airs 80 hours a month, mainly
teleconferences. Arco Chairman and CEO Lod Cook also conducts
dialogues with 14 employees monthly on ``Primetime.''
   Private television is rapidly moving past conferences and
meetings. Some companies air regular shows for employees. Trade
groups, churches and health organizations use networks to pass
along industry updates, train employees or spread the gospel.
   ``This is the way corporate television is going, by satellite
and live,'' said Judy Noble of Merrill Lynch's Video Network. The
investment firm produces two to five shows a week in its Manhattan
studio, beaming them live to 482 offices for viewing by brokers
and, sometimes, investors.
   ``I've been amazed at how many churches have used memorial funds
to purchase a satellite dish,'' said Pat Correll of the United
Methodist Church's network in Nashville. She said 25,000 Sunday
school leaders recently viewed a three-session workshop aired at
350 sites nationwide.
   There are 12,000 receiving sites with satellite dishes around
the country, up from several hundred a few years ago, said Elliott
Gold, publisher of BusinessTV magazine in Altadena, Calif. He
predicts 42,000 locations by 1992.
   ``We're running at about $20 million (in annual revenues). We
have about 16 networks and we're building others,'' said Porat,
whose company started in 1983. ``We went from $300,000 the first
year. We're growing at about 30 percent.''
   Porat's firm has served IBM, Ford Motor Co. and other
organizations looking to pinpoint specific audiences. Private
network programs are as varied as the groups airing and viewing
them.
   ``FedEx Overnight'' updates Federal Express employees on
delivery conditions. The Hospital Satellite Network airs programs
on topics ranging from sexually abused children to fund raising.
Merrill Lynch's network briefed local brokers during last year's
stock market tumble, and a two-way communications feature allowed
some audience members to phone in questions.
   JCPenney uses two-way communication on its Dallas-based network
to plan advertising and promotional campaigns. The merchandising
chain hopes to finish equipping 650 of its largest stores with
satellite dishes by October.
   Private television viewers gather in conference rooms,
classrooms or living rooms, wherever there is a link to a satellite
dish. To thwart video pirates, most shows are sent with a scrambled
signal for decoding at approved receiving sites.
   Receiving sites cost about $5,000 apiece to build; sending sites
to beam the signal to a satellite run $200,000 to $300,000, said
Louis Bransford of the Public Service Satellite Consortium,
comprised of churches, trade groups, educators and health
organizations using television.
   BusinessTV publishes a monthly guide to upcoming programs on
industry-wide services, such as the Satellite Conference Network
and American Law Network, so readers can schedule viewings.
   ``You decide your people need to see the program and tell them
to block out the day on the schedule,'' said Gold. ``Then you
contact the programmer, who sets the price and sends the (reading)
materials. On the day of the program you watch it. When you have a
question you pick up the phone and ask.''
</TEXT>
<TEXT>
   Elsewhere in television:
   ARCHIVES WELCOME _ The Academy of Television Arts & Sciences is
looking for the donation of archives from producers, directors,
writers, actors and others for a new library. Doug Duitsman,
president of the academy and an executive at Warner Bros.
Television, said he is turning his personal collection over to the
library. Jane Wyman said she would donate 165 annotated scripts of
``Falcon Crest,'' and Syd Cassyd, founder of the academy, is
donating his extensive files.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv for Tues PMs, June 21</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0206 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1103EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>a e PM-APArts:JVCJazz Adv23   06-20 0471</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-AP Arts: JVC Jazz, Adv 23,0489</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$Adv 23</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release Thurs PMs, June 23 and Thereafter</NOTE>
<HEAD>Hot, Cool and Jumpin': JVC Jazz Festival</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By MARY CAMPBELL</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The JVC Jazz Festival arrives this year as part
of the First New York International Festival of the Arts, with old
favorites, tributes to departed greats and a sprinkling of jazz
outside the mainstream.
   Two of the tributes are to drummer Buddy Rich and arranger Gil
Evans, who died earlier this year.
   The festival opens on Friday, June 24, with ``For the Love of
Louis,'' a tribute to the great trumpeter Louis Armstrong. The
final night, July 2, features ``A Night for Lady Day,'' the music
of Billie Holiday. On the same night is a ``Latin Jazz Jam,'' a
tribute to Machito, starring Tito Puente, Paquito d'Rivera and
Mongo Santamaria.
   Jazz lovers face a four-way dilemma on the second night. Ella
Fitzgerald will sing at Carnegie Hall while Miles Davis gives a
concert at Avery Fisher Hall. The Toshiko Akiyoshi Orchestra and
the Mel Lewis Big Band carry on ``An Old Fashioned Battle of the
Big Bands'' at Town Hall, and Gerry Mulligan plays at the 92nd
Street Y.
   The third night presents three choices, Duke Ellington's music
at Carnegie, tap dancing at Avery Fisher and the Jim Cullum Jazz
Band playing ``Porgy and Bess'' at the 92nd Street Y's Kaufman
Concert Hall.
   A Charles Mingus All-Star Big Band plays Monday at the Y. On
Tuesday, Dizzy Gillespie's band and singer Carmen McRae take over
Carnegie Hall while several varieties of blues _ delivered by B. B.
King, the Fabulous Thunderbirds, Bonnie Raitt and Dr. John _ fill
Avery Fisher.
   ``The JVC Jazz Festival Salutes Jazz in France,'' with
performances by a number of French jazz artists, is made possible
on Wednesday at Town Hall by the First New York International
Festival of the Arts. Also that night is an evening at Carnegie
Hall saluting vocal group traditions, starring Mel Torme;
Montgomery, Plant and Stritch; and Cissy Houston and the Sweet
Inspirations. Lionel Hampton and Wynton Marsalis are booked for
Avery Fisher, and the Gil Evans Orchestra for the 92nd Street Y.
   Carlos Santana, Wayne Shorter and Lee Ritenour play at Avery
Fisher on Thursday, while Sarah Vaughan sings at Carnegie and Dave
Brubeck leads his quartet at the 92nd Street Y.
   On the final Friday, Buddy Rich's music will be heard at
Carnegie and saxophonist Kenny G and guitarist Stanley Jordan will
share a bill at Avery Fisher.
   Moonlight cruises on the Hudson Dayliner are scheduled for both
Fridays in the festival. Trumpet player Donald Byrd will do the
first cruise and the following week will have Bobby ``Blue'' Bland
and the blues.
   The festival is sponsored by JVC, a Japanese electronics firm.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0207 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0938EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>a i PM-Archaeology-Rome Adv23   06-20 0731</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Archaeology-Rome, Adv 23,0752</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$adv23</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release Thurs PMs June 23 or Thereafter</NOTE>
<HEAD>Archaeologists Find Clues to Founding of Rome</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   d
</TEXT>
<HEAD>Eds, another archaeology story for release this date is</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   PM-Archaeology-Denmark, b0295.
</TEXT>
<BYLINE>By CAROL CIRULLI</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>ROME (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Archaeologists have dug up a wall in the heart of
the Roman Forum that could help them discover the secrets of the
founding of Rome. The city could be older than it thinks it is.
   The archaeologists say the dicovery also could find some truth
in the legend of Romulus and Remus.
   According to the legend, Romulus established Rome by building a
defensive wall around the Palatine Hill, the site where he and his
twin brother, Remus, were suckled in their infancy by a she-wolf
and reared by a shepherd. Romulus then founded Rome in 753 B.C., as
the legend goes.
   While the archaeologists don't believe they'll find any proof of
Romulus, Remus, the she-wolf and the shepherd, they do think they
might find some truth in the legend about the way Rome was founded
and when.
   Andrea Carandini, a University of Pisa professor who is leading
the dig, said archaeologists in May uncovered a stone wall on a
slope of the hill just at the spot described by the ancient Roman
historian Tacitus as the site of the wall that first defined and
protected Rome.
   Experts have dated the find to the 7th century B.C., but
Carandini said in an interview he suspects underneath it is an
earlier version of a defensive wall that could have been built a
century earlier.
   Archaeologists say reaching the wall could be the first tangible
piece of evidence to back up the story of Rome's legendary founding
in 753 B.C.
   But secrets of the earliest days of Roman civilization may stay
locked in the ground if the government fund that has financed the
dig for the last three years is not replenished. Carandini says the
team needs the equivalent of about $400,000 to continue.
   For now Carandini keeps digging.
   ``We will never discover the wall of Romulus because Romulus is
a legend, of course,'' he said. ``But I think the nucleus of the
legend is right, and in a way, we already proved this because
nobody believed that there really was a fortification of the
Palatine Hill.''
   The base of the hill eventually developed into the Forum,
ancient Rome's market and meeting place, now a major tourist
attraction.
   Experts who have observed the excavations say the discoveries,
if fully documented, will provide significant insight into the
little-known period between the 8th and 6th centuries B.C.
   ``It is interesting that the physical objects that (Carandini)
is discovering not only seem to be dated very early in the history
of the city but are related to the historical texts that talk about
the foundation of the city,'' said Richard Brilliant, a professor
of art history and archaeology at Columbia University in New York,
who visited the site in May.
   ``Whether or not conclusions can be drawn about the wall in the
development of the city is something much more research is needed
to demonstrate.''
   Alessandro Guidi, an official with the regional archaeology
office, said the find indicates that Rome may have evolved much
earlier than was once believed from a primitive village inhabited
mainly by shepherds into a more advanced society.
   ``This could be very important because it may be proof that
before the Etruscans conquered Rome, Rome already was a very big
center,'' Guidi said.
   The defensive wall, discovered about 10 feet below a grassy
surface, probably surrounded a ``pomoerium,'' or holy place, in the
city that had been founded with the gods' blessings, Carandini said.
   Above the excavated wall, archaeologist found remnants of houses
they believe date back to the end of the 6th century B.C. and
belonged to aristocrats of Etruscan origins.
   The houses probably were built after the defensive wall was
expanded to surround the seven hills of Rome, Carandini said.
   But it is what lies below the wall that may give real insight
into the founding of one of the world's most ancient civilizations.
   ``We go with clues like Sherlock Holmes,'' Carandini said. ``It
is the only way we have of checking the history of Rome, which at
this point is a legend. But I think a legend is another way of
writing history.''
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv Thurs PMs June 23</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0208 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0938EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>a i PM-Mexico-Chicanos Adv24   06-20 0727</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Mexico-Chicanos, Adv 24,0752</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$adv24</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release Fri PMs June 24 or Thereafter</NOTE>
<HEAD>Mexican TV Series Shows Chicanos in New Light</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By SERGIO CARRASCO</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>MEXICO CITY (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   ``Chicanos,'' a 30-week series of government
television programs, is showing Mexican-Americans in a new light in
Mexico.
   The intent is to ease resentments in Mexico toward Chicanos, as
Mexican-Americans are called, and demonstrate their growing power
in the United States, according to program directors.
   ``This ethnic minority in the United States is irreversibly
destined to play a very important cultural and political role
inside the great world power during our lifetimes,'' narrator
Virgilio Caballero says in the first episode.
   Chicanos often are criticized here for having left Mexico and,
often, for not being able to speak Spanish, or speaking the
language with an American accent.
   Ricardo Ocampo, the ``Chicanos'' producer, said, ``It's time to
say on this side of the Rio Grande that Chicanos aren't what people
have said of them. It's time to give them their just due.
   ``They love their country, the United States, but they don't
forget their roots and we have to respect that,'' he added in an
interview.
   The Mexican government has tried intermittently for at least two
decades to develop stronger ties with Chicanos, and some leaders on
both sides of the border have favored promoting a pro-Mexico voting
bloc.
   But sensitive U.S.-Mexican relations _ the U.S. government
usually balks at what its sees as Mexican meddling in its internal
affairs _ and the failure by the many Hispanic organizations to
resolve differences has impeded movement in that direction.
   Many Chicanos struggling to be accepted in the United States
want little to do with the land of their ancestors, although
Mexican cultural values do remain strong among them.
   ``In many ways the Mexican culture is reproduced in the Chicano
experience in the heart of the United States,'' Caballero said.
   In the most recent acknowledgment of Chicanos by the Mexican
government, Carlos Salinas de Gortari, the front-running candidate
in this year's presidential election in Mexico, met with Chicano
leaders in Tijuana, over the border from California.
   ``As Mexicans, we observe with pride the dynamism and vitality
of your community within the United States,'' he told the leaders.
   Armando Navarro, director of Impacto 88, an umbrella
organization of Chicano groups from several U.S. states, said
Chicanos should turn their numbers into political power.
   ``We think Mexico should study how to design its own politics in
this area according to its own principles,'' Navarro said at the
Tijuana meeting.
   He said Chicanos could play an important role ``in the job of
explaining the Mexican reality to other North Americans.''
   Hispanics will represent 10 percent of the U.S. population by
the year 2000 and 65 percent will be of Mexican descent, the
majority of them Chicanos, according to Caballero.
   He said the growing number of Latins represents ``a strong
political, economic and cultural force.''
   Yet Latins don't make up a ``homogenous block,'' he added,
noting that Puerto Ricans and Cubans have their own interests in
the United States.
   Jorge Bustamante, director of the Northern Border College and
columnist for the Mexico City newspaper Excelsior, said Chicanos
have not taken advantage of their political power.
   ``Although still very far from achieving the political maturity
to `bloc vote' _ as black and other ethnic minorities in that
country do _ the electoral importance of ... Chicanos is growing,
above all in California and Texas,'' he wrote in a recent column.
   Bustamante, however, expressed a widely held opinion in Mexico
that many Chicanos ``think like gringos.''
   He criticized a Chicano group in California for proposing that
the U.S. government intervene to assure upcoming presidential
elections in Mexico are clean.
   ``Being of Mexican descent or having the last name Sanchez,
Chavez or Garcia, in the United States, isn't sufficient to
understand what goes on in Mexico, and much less to feel solidarity
with the majority of Mexicans.''
   According to Bustamante, ``Many Chicanos love Mexico but, in
wanting to help resolve the problems of our country, they think
like any other gringo, which shouldn't surprise us.''
   However, Producer Ocampo said ``Chicanos,'' a half-hour program
produced by the federal Borders Cultural Program, has ``strictly
cultural objectives.''
   Among its major goals, he said, is to destroy the ``absurd
stereotypes'' some Mexicans have of Chicanos.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv Fri PMs June 24</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0209 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0939EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>a i PM-Archaeology-Denmark Adv23   06-20 0716</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Archaeology-Denmark, Adv 23,0739</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$adv23</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release Thurs PMs June 23 or Thereafter</NOTE>
<HEAD>Museum Workers Reconstructing Stone Age Boat in Denmark</HEAD>
<HEAD>Eds, another archaeology story for release this date is
PM-Archaeology-Rome, b0293.</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By FRANK POWLEY</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>ROSKILDE, Denmark (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Experts have begun painstakingly
piecing together the crumbling remains of a newly discovered
ancient dugout boat beached near a Stone Age settlement more than
7,000 years ago.
   The dugout, thought to be one of the oldest vessels ever
recovered, was spotted last summer by skin-diving scientists and
historians on an expedition to an area where Paleolithic flint
tools had been found earlier.
   Stone Age shipwrights made the boat by hollowing out a lime log
with flint axes. A carbon 14 test of the vessel's lime wood dated
it to 5250 B.C.
   By chance the divers caught sight of the boat's gunwales
sticking up from the sandy seabed at a depth of about 6{ feet.
   They named it the ``Korshavn Dugout'' after the bay in the
northeast of the island of Funen where it was found.
   Following a troubled salvage operation that shattered the hull,
the dugout was brought in pieces to Roskilde Ship Museum on the
main island of Zealand, which houses a major collection of restored
Viking-age ships from nearby excavations.
   ``It could take up to two years to assemble the thousands of
boat pieces onto a frame,'' said Tinna Damsgaard-Soerensen, the
historian in charge of reconstructing the dugout.
   ``It's like a big jigsaw puzzle, but solvable.''
   The delicate pieces, each wrapped in a spongy cloth, are laid
out in water-filled trays to conserve the wood. None is larger than
a paperback book.
   The painstaking task of drawing, photographing, conserving and
cataloging each piece is being carried out in full public view as a
working exhibition, which includes a video tape of the salvage.
   It proved impossible to measure the boat's length because the
ends were missing. But 12 feet of the dugout survived, and
restoration workers estimate it was at least 13 to 16{ feet long
with a 24-inch beam.
   The dugout had a surprisingly thin hull, less than two inches
thick at the bottom and 1.2 inches along the gunwales, said curator
Flemming Rieck.
   ``It's a superb example of handicrafting,'' he said.
   To gain a better understanding of Stone Age methods, Rieck's
group hauled a fresh lime log into the museum hall and carved a
replica of the Korshavn boat with flint tools.
   Rieck, an expert on ancient vessels of northern Europe, said
dugouts were used mainly for hunting and fishing close to home, and
for transporting people and goods between settlements.
   Dugouts like the Korshavn, which could carry four or five
people, often had a clay fireplace in the stern because ancient man
carried fire with him on his travels, Rieck said.
   The dugout apparently was abandoned on the shore near a
settlement. But the rising waters from melting glaciers north of
Denmark flooded the area, and the boat was discovered underwater,
Rieck said.
   The boat rested in an eight-inch-thick culture layer containing
bits of flint and food scraps that can reveal glimpses of
settlement life.
   The excavation of the Korshavn Dugout presented a special
problem requiring a method that had never been tried before, said
Rieck.
   Due to the advanced decomposition of the wood, salvagers decided
to bring up the boat together with the layer of sand in which it
was embedded.
   A strong salvaging frame was dug into position around the boat.
Thin copper pipes were inserted through the frame's lower edge
beneath the boat through which liquid nitrogen was pumped at a
temperature of minus 392 degrees Fahrenheit.
   It was hoped, Rieck said, the intense cold would freeze the
water around the pipes, forming a firm base of ice within the
salvaging frame that could be raised out of the sea with the dugout
intact.
   But a severe storm broke as the salvage was under way. Large
amounts of sand shifted as waves beat against the seabed. The next
morning the divers found the dugout lying in fragments within the
frame, which were sent to the museum on wooden planks.
   ``We still have faith in the freeze technique and probably will
try it again in some future excavation,'' said Rieck.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv Thurs PMs June 23</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0210 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0940EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>a i PM-Brazil-JusticeMakers Adv27   06-20 0683</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Brazil-Justice Makers, Adv 27,0703</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$adv27</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release Mon PMs June 27 or Thereafter</NOTE>
<HEAD>Brazilian Police Battle Vigilante `Justice Makers'</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By STAN LEHMAN</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>SAO PAULO, Brazil (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   On a summer evening in one of the
crime-ridden slums on Sao Paulo's outskirts, five men sat in a
run-down bar. The drinks would be their last.
   Seven men burst in with handguns, lined the five against a wall
and fired more than 30 bullets into them.
   The killers vanished into the night.
   Police say the vigilante-style slayings last February,
summertime in Brazil, were the work of ``justiceiros,'' Portuguese
for justice makers.
   The gangs are on the rise here in South America's biggest city,
where outnumbered and poorly equipped police can't keep up with
violent crime.
   Since 1986, police say, justiceiros have killed an estimated 400
people in the slums of this city of 10 million.
   ``Several victims were bandits. Others, like those gunned down
last February, were killed because they had witnessed justiceiro
killings. Many were killed for no apparent reason,'' said Waldemar
dos Santos Batista, a chief investigator on the newly created
anti-justiceiro squad of the Sao Paulo State Security Bureau.
   Since it began operations March 11, the 250-man squad has
arrested 30 suspected justiceiros who, Batista said, have confessed
to 120 murders over the past two years. About 100 justiceiros are
still thought to be at large, he said.
   The vigilante gangs are similar to the ``death squads'' in Rio
de Janeiro in the 1960s. Policemen, reacting to the shooting death
of a popular detective, began to summarily execute suspected
criminals, leaving skull-and-crossbones emblems next to the bodies.
   In Sao Paulo, justiceiros first surfaced about six years ago,
eliminating bandits who preyed on slum merchants and dwellers,
according to State Security Chief Luiz Antonio Fleury Filho.
   ``They were welcomed in the slums, because police lack
credibility among the poor and because of the impunity criminals
enjoy as a result of the excessively bureaucratic, inefficient and
slow-moving legal system,'' Fleury said in an interview.
   He added that about two years ago, justiceiros expanded their
activities and began dealing in drugs, forcing shopowners to buy
protection _ often killing those who didn't _ charging fees to
allow people to circulate unmolested in the slums.
   ``People who at first felt protected by these criminals started
being victimized by them, and gradually the slums started wanting
to get rid of the justiceiros,'' he added.
   Like the Rio death squads, justiceiro gangs are believed to be
made up largely of off-duty policemen, frustrated at what they
believe are legal obstacles keeping them from more forceful action
against criminals.
   ``Some policemen may be showing a certain tolerance towards the
justiceiros,'' Fleury said. ``We are investigating this possibility
as well as any other more serious involvement by police.''
   One of the most notorious justiceiros, Fleury said, was
Florisvaldo de Oliveira, a Sao Paulo state police corporal who,
during his off-duty hours, killed at least 50 people from 1982 to
1983, when he was arrested.
   Oliveira was sentenced to 84 years in prison. He escaped twice,
allegedly with help from sympathetic jailers, and was recaptured
this past May 25.
   Cidenor Ancelmo Brilhante of the industrial suburb of Sao
Bernardo do Campo openly calls himself ``the bandit hunter.''
Police say they suspect he is a justiceiro, but Inspector Carmine
Pepe of the anti-justiceiro squad said ``so far we have not been
able to prove anything.''
   In an interview with the Folha de Sao Paulo newspaper, Brilhante
said he couldn't remember how many people he has killed.
   ``Most of the time I hunt down bandits and turn them over to the
police or I kill them in shootouts, never in cold blood,'' the
paper quoted him as saying.
   ``Anyone who murders or rapes cannot be considered a human
being. For me such a person is nothing more than a louse, and lice
must be crushed.''
   The ``bandit hunter'' has become so popular among slum dwellers
that he is preparing to run for City Councilman in November's
elections, Folha de Sao Paulo said.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv Mon PMs June 27</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0211 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0924EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>a a BC-History Adv26   06-20 0444</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-History, Adv26,0463</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$Adv26</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release Sunday, June 26</NOTE>
<HEAD>Today in History</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By The Associated Press</BYLINE>
<TEXT>
   Today is Sunday, June 26, the 178th day of 1988. There are 188
days left in the year.
   Today's highlight in history:
   Twenty-five years ago, on June 26, 1963, President John F.
Kennedy visited West Berlin, where he was greeted by more than a
million of the divided city's residents. In a speech, Kennedy made
his now-famous declaration, ``Ich bin ein Berliner.'' (I am a
Berliner).
   On this date:
   In 1870, the first section of Atlantic City, N.J.'s famous
boardwalk was opened to the public.
   In 1900, a commission that included Dr. Walter Reed began the
fight against the deadly disease yellow fever.
   In 1917, the first troops of the American Expeditionary Force
arrived in France during World War I.
   In 1919, the first issue of the New York Daily News was
published.
   In 1945, the charter of the United Nations was signed by 50
countries in San Francisco. (The text of the charter was in five
languages: Chinese, English, French, Russian and Spanish.)
   In 1948, in response to the Soviet blockade of West Berlin, the
United States announced it would increase its daily cargo flights
to the western sector of the isolated German city.
   In 1959, President Dwight D. Eisenhower joined Britain's Queen
Elizabeth II in ceremonies officially opening the St. Lawrence
Seaway.
   In 1975, citing what she called a ``deep and widespread
conspiracy'' against her government, Indian Prime Minister Indira
Gandhi declared a state of emergency.
   In 1977, 42 people were killed when a fire, caused by an inmate
who had ignited padding material in his cell, sent toxic smoke
pouring through the Maury County Jail in Columbia, Tenn.
   In 1984, with only four seconds remaining in the countdown, the
first launch of the space shuttle Discovery was scrubbed when a
problem developed in an engine fuel valve.
   Ten years ago: A bomb blamed on Brittany separatists went off at
the Palace of Versailles in France, severely damaging one wing of
the historic building.
   Five years ago: The Soviet Union announced that 15
Pentecostalists would be allowed to leave the country, including
five who had taken refuge in the U.S. Embassy in Moscow for nearly
5 years.
   One year ago: Supreme Court Justice Lewis F. Powell Jr.
announced his retirement from the nation's highest court, leaving
open a vacancy that was eventually filled by Judge Anthony M.
Kennedy.
   Today's birthdays: Actress Eleanor Parker is 66. Singer Billy
Davis is 48.
   Thought for today: ``Custom may lead a man into many errors, but
it justifies none.'' _ Henry Fielding, English author and dramatist
(1707-1754).
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0212 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0925EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>a a BC-History Adv27   06-20 0461</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-History, Adv27,0481</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$Adv27</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release Monday, June 27</NOTE>
<HEAD>Today in History</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By The Associated Press</BYLINE>
<TEXT>
   Today is Monday, June 27, the 179th day of 1988. There are 187
days left in the year.
   Today's highlight in history:
   On June 27, 1950, President Harry S. Truman ordered the Air
Force and Navy into the Korean conflict after a call from the
United Nations Security Council for member nations to help South
Korea repel an invasion from the North.
   On this date:
   In 1844, Mormon leader Joseph Smith was killed by a mob in
Carthage, Ill.
   In 1847, New York and Boston were linked by telegraph wires.
   In 1880, author-lecturer Helen Keller, who would live most of
her life without sight or hearing, was born in Tuscumbia, Ala.
   In 1942, the FBI announced the capture of eight Nazi saboteurs
who had been put ashore from a submarine on New York's Long Island.
   In 1957, more than 500 people were killed when Hurricane Audrey
slammed through coastal Louisiana and Texas.
   In 1963, President John F. Kennedy spent his first full day in
Ireland, the land of his ancestors.
   In 1973, former White House counsel John W. Dean told the Senate
Watergate Committee about the existence of an ``enemies list'' kept
by the White House.
   In 1977, in a 5-4 decision, the U.S. Supreme Court struck down
state laws and bar association rules that had prohibited lawyers
from advertising the fees they charge clients for routine services.
   In 1982, the space shuttle Columbia roared off the launch pad at
Cape Canaveral, Fla., carrying astronauts Thomas K. Mattingly and
Henry W. Hartsfield Jr., along with the shuttle's first military
and commercial payloads.
   In 1984, the U.S. Supreme Court ended the National Collegiate
Athletic Association's monopoly on controlling college football
telecasts, ruling that such control violated antitrust laws.
   In 1986, the International Court of Justice at The Hague ruled
that the United States had broken international law and violated
the sovereignty of Nicaragua by aiding the contras.
   Ten years ago: The Commerce Department reported the nation's
trade deficit narrowed to $2.24 billion in May 1978, compared with
$2.86 billion in April.
   Five years ago: Balloonists Maxie Anderson and Don Ida were
killed during a race when their helium-filled balloon crashed in a
West German forest.
   One year ago: The White House announced that a final laboratory
analysis of two polyps removed from President Reagan's colon the
day before showed they were benign.
   Today's birthdays: Television's ``Captain Kangaroo,'' Bob
Keeshan, is 61. Opera singer Anna Moffo is 54.
   Thought for today: ``He that will not reason is a bigot. He that
cannot reason is a fool. And he that dares not reason is a slave.''
_ Branch Rickey, American baseball player and manager (1881-1965).
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0213 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0926EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>a a BC-History Adv28   06-20 0427</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-History, Adv28,0446</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$Adv30</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release Tuesday, June 28</NOTE>
<HEAD>Today in History</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By The Associated Press</BYLINE>
<TEXT>
   Today is Tuesday, June 28, the 180th day of 1988. There are 186
days left in the year.
   Today's highlight in history:
   On June 28, 1914, Austrian Archduke Francis Ferdinand and his
wife, Sofia, were assassinated in present-day Sarajevo, Yugoslavia,
by a Serbian revolutionary _ the event that triggered World War I.
Exactly 5 years later, the Treaty of Versailles was signed in
France, officially ending the international conflict.
   On this date:
   In 1491, England's King Henry VIII was born in Greenwich.
   In 1778, Mary Ludwig Hays gained the name ``Molly Pitcher'' and
a place in U.S. history by aiding American forces at the Battle of
Monmouth in New Jersey during the Revolutionary War.
   In 1836, the fourth president of the United States, James
Madison, died in Montpelier, Va.
   In 1838, Britain's Queen Victoria was crowned in Westminster
Abbey.
   In 1894, Labor Day was established as a holiday for federal
employees on the first Monday of September.
   In 1919, Harry S. Truman married Elizabeth Virginia Wallace in
Independence, Mo.
   In 1928, New York Gov. Alfred E. Smith was nominated for
president at the Democratic National Convention in Houston.
   In 1939, Pan American Airways began regular trans-Atlantic air
service as the Dixie Clipper left Port Washington, N.Y., for
Portugal.
   In 1950, North Korean forces captured Seoul, South Korea.
   In 1977, the U.S. Supreme Court upheld a 1974 law giving the
government control over former President Richard M. Nixon's White
House papers and tape recordings.
   Ten years ago: The U.S. Supreme Court ordered the University of
California Medical College at Davis to admit Allan Bakke, a white
man who claimed he was a victim of reverse discrimination when the
school rejected his application. However, the high court also
upheld the constitutionality of certain affirmative action college
programs.
   Five years ago: A 100-foot section of bridge along Interstate 95
in Greenwich, Conn., collapsed, killing three people. Federal
investigators later blamed the collapse on the accumulation of rust
on the pin-and-hanger assembly that held the bridge sections
together.
   One year ago: Secretary of State George P. Shultz said on NBC's
``Meet the Press'' that he found some of the recent revelations
about the Iran-Contra affair ``sickening,'' but he defended the
Reagan administration's foreign policy.
   Today's birthdays: Comedian-movie director Mel Brooks is 62.
Comedian-actress Gilda Radner is 42. Actress Danielle Brisebois is
19.
   Thought for today: ``This only is charity, to do all, all that
we can.'' _ John Donne, English poet (1573-1631).
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0214 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1313EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>a i AM-China-Women'sLaw Adv24   06-20 0775</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-China-Women's Law, Adv 24,0799</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$adv24</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release Fri AMs, June 24, and Thereafter</NOTE>
<HEAD>Lawyers Fight for Women's Rights in China</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By CHARLENE L. FU</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>BEIJING (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A group of lawyers working out of a two-room
office behind gray brick walls in central Beijing has come to the
defense of the rising number of Chinese women who seek legal means
to redress wrongs.
   According to the law, women in China have equal status with men,
but in reality women traditionally are often looked down upon.
   They increasingly face discrimination at work, particularly in
hiring and promotions. Supervisors frequently reject women
applicants on the grounds they are not as efficient or skillful as
men.
   Accounts of wife beatings appear regularly in the Chinese press,
and cases of arranged marriages and girls being sold into marriage
have resurfaced in the countryside.
   The 18 lawyers at the Beijing 8th Lawyer Office _ 17 of whom are
women _ exclusively help women facing such problems. In the past
three years, they have counseled more than 3,000 women and handled
nearly 400 cases in court.
   On the walls of their small office near Tiananmen Square are
reminders of some of their victories.
   A set of calligraphy scrolls, commissioned by a grateful client
who won her case against a bigamist husband, hangs just inside the
door.
   ``Upright for life, your spirit lives as long as heaven and
earth,'' it says in praise of the lawyers.
   Established in 1985 by the All-China Women's Federation, the
legal center is the first and largest of its kind in China.
   Similar legal aid offices for women have opened in the southern
city of Canton (Guangzhou) and in Sichuan province, but none has as
big a staff or case load as the Beijing office.
   ``Everyone has the same goal,'' the deputy chief lawyer, Zhang
Xiaoqing, said of her colleagues. ``We want to use our legal
knowledge for the benefit of women and children.''
   In the cramped and badly lit office, Yu Lin, in her 60s,
conducted an interview one recent day with a 47-year-old divorced
woman who was fighting for custody of her 6-year-old son.
   Nearby, Tian Hui, a 24-year-old lawyer, sat at a narrow, wooden
desk carefully taking notes as a 39-year-old factory worker from
the countryside talked about her dissatisfaction with a recent
divorce settlement.
   The client fought back tears as she related how her second
husband asked for a divorce because his two children by a previous
marraige were grown and he no longer needed her.
   The district court had already granted the divorce, but she was
unhappy with the financial settlement, which awarded her husband
their six joint bank accounts, their apartment and furnishings and
bicycle.
   Women like these have a hard time getting legal aid, because
China has a shortage of lawyers _ only 20,000 to 30,000 for a
country of more than 1 billion people, Zhang said.
   The 8th Lawyer's Office is open mornings for walk-in
consultations. In the afternoons, the lawyers work on cases.
   Fees start at 50 fen (13 cents) for consultations and are never
more than 2 yuan (54 cents). The basic fee is 1 yuan (27 cents),
but about one-third of the women are too poor to pay even that.
   To represent a client in a divorce case, the lawyers charge 30
to 50 yuan ($8 to $13), based on rates set by the state, but again
about 30 percent of the women pay less or nothing.
   Some women learn of the office from a notice in the Beijing
Intermediate People's Court while others are referred by the
Women's Federation.
   ``We only take on those cases that are reasonable,'' Zhang said.
``If they have no (legal) reason for bringing up a case, we try to
explain the law to them. That's part of our work too.''
   One of their more interesting cases involved a 60-year-old
deaf-mute woman whose husband was branded a counter-revolutionary
during the ultra-leftist 1966-76 Cultural Revolution.
   Out of concern for his wife and two children, the man divorced
the wife and told her they would remarry if his perilous situation
improved.
   After the Cultural Revolution, he was rehabilitated, received
back pay and given compensation for his home and household goods
that were confiscated.
   The man, however, married someone else, moved to another
province and never paid child support or gave any kind of financial
assistance to his first wife for the years she reared their
children on her own.
   The 8th Lawyer's Office took her case to court, which ruled that
the man had to pay the woman 1,500 yuan ($405).
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv for Fri AMs, June 24</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0215 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1314EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>a i AM-Poland-Youth Adv27   06-20 0964</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Poland-Youth, Adv 27,0994</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$adv27</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release Mon AMs, June 27, and Thereafter</NOTE>
<HEAD>For Poland's Young: Should They Leave or Stay?
^An AP Extra</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By JOHN DANISZEWSKI</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>WARSAW, Poland (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Wlodzimierz Rucewicz, 28, university
graduate, husband and father of one, has a decision to make.
   Should he leave Poland for good and seek a better life in the
West, living among strangers and perhaps never being accepted as
anything but an alien?
   Or should he remain in the land of his birth and face a future
of paralyzing bureaucracy, consumer shortages and struggle for a
decent living?
   He's not alone in his pondering.
   The same questions loom to a greater or lesser degree for
virtually all of the 12 million Poles under 30 who must decide,
after 43 years of communism and nearly a decade of economic crisis,
whether there is any real reason to stay in Poland.
   Polish-born Pope John Paul II has advised them that their place
is in Poland.
   The government angrily has accused Western countries of
deliberately trying to draw away Poland's best and brightest.
   But public opinion polls and sociologists indicate that young
people are less and less hopeful for their future at home and that
more and more of them want to live abroad for at least two years.
   Rucewicz, who earns his living as a free-lance English
translator, says he looks in his address book and sees most of his
friends already are in the United States, Britain or Australia.
   ``Not too many people are starving here, like in Ethiopia or are
homeless in the sense that they have nowhere to go,'' he said.
``But it doesn't have to be that drastic to make your life a living
hell, right?''
   He cites low wages and the lack of housing as two of the main
problems.
   ``You've got something like 30 years to wait before you get an
apartment (in a housing cooperative).
   ``If you want to work honestly _ that is, come to work in your
office, do your job and go back home _ there is no way that you
could ever in your life earn enough money to buy your own place.
There are no jobs in Poland that could give you that much money.''
   Buying a modest house in the Warsaw outskirts costs at least 10
million zlotys ($23,000), while a couple working at decent jobs may
earn 1.2 million zlotys ($2,800) a year. With no mortgage system
for buying houses, a couple has save the entire sum before making
the purchase.
   Sociologist Jerzy Wertenstein-Zulawski mentions a welter of
other factors contributing to a sense of hopelessness among Polish
youth, including feelings of alienation and lack of control, a
``hostile'' school environment, oppressive laws and poor
environmental and health conditions in Poland.
   Citing an officially published study last year of Polish youth,
he said only 10 percent feel they have a degree of control in their
workplace, and the number of youths who believe the world will turn
to communism is falling.
   Young people also see their career prospects blocked by
politics, Wertenstein-Zulawski said. In a country where 75 percent
of managerial jobs belong to members of the Polish United Workers
Party, as the communist party is called, only 1 percent of people
under 35 have party membership cards.
   Emigration is one option for the young, especially since
Poland's liberalized passport policy allows large numbers to go
abroad.
   In the period 1980-87, about 365,000 Poles emigrated or legally
extended their stays abroad, while 370,000 illegally failed to
return from foreign trips, according to a recently published
article in the Polish weekly Odrodzenia. The number includes an
estimated 22,000 engineers, 3,000 economists, 3,000 doctors and
4,000 scientists.
   Wertenstein-Zulawski, who works for the Ministry of Culture,
said some young people have turned to drugs, alcohol, hard-rock
music, or cult groups practicing parapsychology or Buddhism.
   He added that Poles now are seeing in their midst growing
numbers of leather-jacketed Polish ``punks,'' a movement brought
back to Poland by young intelligentsia who traveled abroad and
which now is rooted in the working class.
   Poland's growing private sector has provided another outlet for
many disenchanted youth.
   Rucewicz said his once politically active friends have given up
hope of changing the system, and now are devoting themselves
single-mindedly to ``making money'' _ for instance in boutiques,
restaurants, shoe-sole manufacturing or tailoring services.
   The problem is that running a business in Poland is almost
impossible within the law, because of strangling taxes, regulations
and inability to obtain materials through legal channels, Rucewicz
said.
   ``If you don't cheat here and there, you're ruined immediately.
... That makes you practically a criminal.''
   As part of its economic reform program, the government is
starting to address the issue, promising to remove obstacles to
entering businesses and do away with many regulations.
   ``If I were the government I would do everything possible to
increase the private sector because this is the only thing for
these energetic people, the people with initiative,'' said
Wertenstein-Zulawski.
   A statement in February by government spokesman Jerzy Urban
assailing those who emigrate for better salaries has brought an
angry and anguished response from many young people.
   Piotr Stepniak, a junior faculty member at Poznan University who
says he and his wife hold down six jobs, wrote in the weekly
newspaper Prawo i Zycie (Law and Life) recently that the complaints
about greedy young people show ``the authorities do not want to
notice the real reasons for emigration.''
   ``The Polish crisis already has a chronic character,'' he said.
   ``Everything is provisional, relative and subject to reform. The
highest ideals in this perspective lose their sense for the young
generation. Today white is black, tomorrow red, the next day blue.
...''
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv for Mon AMs, June 27</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0216 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1430EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>s a BC-APN--SocialistMayor Adv03-1stAdd   06-20 0775</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-APN--Socialist Mayor, Adv 03-1st Add,0796</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$adv03</NOTE>
<HEAD>AGENCIES AND RADIO OUT</HEAD>
<NOTE>For Release Sunday, July 3</NOTE>
<HEAD>BURLINGTON, Vt.: Union Party.</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   Conservatism was in its heyday elsewhere when Sanders scored his
first victory in Vermont, squeaking into office with a 10-vote
margin over a Democratic incumbent.
   Voters, politicians and media weren't the only ones caught by
surprise.
   ``I woke up one day and was mayor of Burlington,'' Sanders
recalls, in a voice, right out of Flatbush, that still carries
traces of disbelief seven years later. ``Before that, the largest
business I'd ever run employed two people _ and not at the same
time.''
   The upset made him not only the highest elected official in
Vermont's biggest city, but also the only independent mayor of the
only three-party city in America.
   Built on the steep hills that rise from the shores of Lake
Champlain, Burlington looks out at New York's scenic Adirondack
Mountains. It's a casual, stylish little city that owes its
affluence to a nearby IBM plant, its academic flavor to the
University of Vermont.
   ``Burlington is a very nice city right next to Vermont,'' jokes
the mayor. It's a popular view of the commercial, cultural and
academic center of a determinedly rural state.
   While Vermonters may consider Burlington ``the big city,'' its
problems are closer to small-town scale, Sanders acknowledges. For
example, the city runs two emergency shelters with a total of 80
beds. ``On the worst night,'' he says, ``we might fill them both.''
   Whether Sanders' political success is strictly a Burlington
phenomenon is a notion the mayor will test in November, as an
independent candidate in a three-way race for the state's lone U.S.
House seat.
   While he's been re-elected as mayor three times, Sanders has
suffered his share of defeats while in office.
   Last March, the administration sought, but failed to get, voter
approval of a special assessment against all non-residential
property to launch a $600,000 day-care program.
   A proposal that some affordable housing be incorporated in all
new residential development never got past the board of aldermen.
   Despite Burlington's three-party status, Sanders' Independent
Progressive Party has never held a majority on the 13-member board
of aldermen. Currently, it comprises four Democrats, three
Republicans and six Progressives, the most favorable balance since
Sanders took office.
   Regardless of the gains, ``this is still one small city in a
capitalist country. My political dream is to develop a strong third
party. The reality is that the majority of people are Democrats and
Republicans.''
   Sanders views military spending and nuclear weaponry as local
issues. ``To the degree that the federal government spends more on
bombs and nerve gas, it also spends less on fire departments,'' he
says.
   Nancy Chioffi, Democratic president of the board of aldermen and
a possible candidate for mayor in next year's election, says not
everyone considers a global agenda appropriate for a small-city
mayor. ``There's a strong sense that the city should spend its time
on city business,'' she says.
   She praises Sanders for his tax reform, hiring and economic
development efforts, as well as ``opening the doors of city hall to
a broader spectrum of people. He's stirred the pot, and in so
doing, he's created a very exciting climate.''
   ``The other side is that he's shut out more traditional people.
His belief in the need for three parties has created a large rift''
between traditional Democrats and Independents, who tend to be
yesterday's liberal Democrats.
   The level of animosity became clear at a Democratic caucus in
April, at which Sanders, appearing on behalf of Jesse Jackson,
literally got his face slapped by a Democrat who thought he had no
business being there.
   Chioffi also accuses the mayor of economic oversimplification.
``If you're rich, you're bad; if you're poor you're good,'' she
says. ``He needs to recognize that there are some good rich and
some bad poor.''
   The uneven distribution of wealth is a recurring campaign theme
as Sanders rattles around the state in a rusting gray Honda
littered with empty yogurt containers, old sweat shirts and ratty
news clippings. To climb in is to enter a time warp, right down to
the '60s folk songs jammed into the tape deck.
   No matter what his fate in November, this will be his last term
as mayor. Among the most memorable events of his tenure was his May
28 wedding to Jane Driscoll, 37, director of the city's Youth
Office.
   The wedding, held at a city park and open to the public,
prompted Sanders to don a suit for the occasion. Equally startling,
he arrived early, a full eight minutes before the ceremony began.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv for Sunday, July 3</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0217 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1434EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>s a BC-APN--OtherFolks Adv03   06-20 1099</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-APN--Other Folks, Adv 03,1132</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$Adv03</NOTE>
<HEAD>AGENCIES AND RADIO OUT</HEAD>
<NOTE>For Release Sunday, July 3</NOTE>
<HEAD>From AP Newsfeatures</HEAD>
<NOTE>(APN SUNDAY ILLUSTRATIONS: Mailed print subscribers get 1 b&w
photo. ColorFoto subscribers get 2 35mm slides.)</NOTE>
<TEXT>
   
   EDITOR'S NOTE _ There are the celebrities, the news-makers, the
movers and shakers. Then there are the other folks, ordinary people
doing ordinary or extraordinary jobs, trying to cope in a
complicated world, chasing their own dreams. Here is the first in
an occasional series focusing on the Other Folks. Meet Linda Seay,
prison guard and country singer.
</TEXT>
<BYLINE>By DAVID L. LANGFORD</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>AP Newsfeatures Writer</BYLINE>
<TEXT>
   STARKE, Fla. _ It was a first for Linda Seay, a prison guard by
day, a honky-tonk singer by night, a country girl who knows what
it's like to work in the tobacco fields and is proud of it.
   ``Today we had a stabbing at the prison,'' she was saying the
other night at the 301 Lounge, a local hangout where she often
sings her song, ``Shed a Tear.'' ``It's the first stabbing I've
witnessed.''
   At age 32, Linda Seay, the daughter of a truck
driver-barber-insurance salesman, is still dreaming of making it
big in Nashville (a place she's never been) like her idol Loretta
Lynn (a person she's never met). She wants a little log cabin with
a creek running beside it, where she can go and fish and sit with
her guitar, picking out the tunes that come into her head.
   For the time being she's making ends meet working as a guard at
Union Correctional Institution, a maximum security prison for men
at Raiford, just across the New River from the main Florida state
prison.
   It's not a comfortable place for a bouncy brunette with curly
hair, who stands just 5-feet-1, weighs 125 pounds, and carries
neither gun nor billy stick. She hears the inmates sniffing her
perfume as she walks by _ ``It gives them a kick'' _ and sometimes
has to dress one down for getting fresh.
   ``I feel like Daniel in the lion's den,'' says Linda, giggling.
``What am I going to do, hit them with my purse?
   ``It's the new ones that come in and try you out. You have to
end up locking up and chewing out.''
   The giggle fades.
   ``It's a real dangerous place,'' she says. ``That ain't no
prison for bad-check writers. I don't want to be there. It's just
the only good-paying job in this area and I get homesick when I'm
away from home.''
   Linda earns $7.50 an hour, not bad money in this part of
palmetto-pocked, rural north Florida where the only major employers
are the nearby prisons, a Du Pont titanium surface mine, and Camp
Blanding, a National Guard training base 10 miles east of the town
of about 6,000. Linda's father worked at the prison for a while, as
does her brother, a brother-in-law, an uncle.
   ``I'm a correctional officer by day, but really my heart is a
rebel,'' she says.
   Most of the women guards at Union work in the eight towers
surrounding the prison, Linda says.
   ``You just sit up there and you have your gun in the corner,
ready to go,'' Linda says. ``If one gets across the first fence,
you fire a warning shot. If he gets through the second fence, you
stop him _ whatever it takes. You don't have time to look up this
man's file and see what he's in there for.
   ``It takes gutsy women.''
   A child bride, Linda got married at 16 _ ``when I was young and
dumb'' _ and was divorced six years later. Seay is her maiden name.
   Like her two younger sisters and a younger brother, she was
introduced to music in the Pentecostal Holiness Church, singing the
old-time gospel songs like ``In the Sweet Bye and Bye,'' ``I'll Fly
Away,'' and ``Amazing Grace.'' After she taught herself to play the
guitar by ear (she still can't read music), she became a favorite
at family reunions.
   When she was 13 she started singing professionally with a group
from Palatka called The Country Ramblers. ``We played all the
places that would let me in, since I was a minor.''
   She's been at it ever since, appearing at places like Bobby's
Hideaway in Waldo, the Happy Hour Lounge in Jacksonville, the
Holiday Inn (before it changed its name) and the Club 100 (before
it burned down) in Starke.
   ``I guess I've played every honky-tonk and beer tavern in a
100-mile radius,'' she says.
   Six years ago, at a small four-track studio in Florahome, near
Palatka, Linda cut a record with two songs she wrote, ``Shed a
Tear'' and ``Since I First Laid Eyes on You.''
   Backing her up was The Midnight Express, a truck driver on
drums, an eighth-grade teacher on the bass, the operator of a TV
rental store on lead guitar. Some 400 records were pressed, at a
personal cost of $2,500. A few wound up on jukeboxes around the
county and some truck drivers took a few to other parts of the
country.
   Four years ago, came the job at the prison.
   Correctional officers must have a high school diploma and
qualify firing such weapons as the AR15 rifle, .38-caliber
revolver, .357-caliber Magnum and the shotgun. They then go through
eight weeks of training.
   ``Oh, I hate that shotgun,'' Linda giggles. ``It kicks so bad.''
   Linda works in a glass-enclosed cubicle in a breezeway between
three buildings housing 96 prisoners each, keeping track of their
movements, logging them in, logging them out.
   She was at her post when the stabbing occurred.
   ``At lunchtime,'' she says, ``one inmate walked in, spoke to me,
and walked through the breezeway. When he opened the door to his
cell, his cellmate stabbed him with a homemade knife.''
   Linda is longing for the day she gets out of that prison, to
make it in music. She plays the Florida lottery every day, hoping
for the big break.
   ``I watch the country music awards, you know, and I fantasize.
How they must feel, if they've worked all their lives like I have.
I've worked in the tobacco fields stringing tobacco, I've
waitressed, I've tended bar, I've been a soda jerk. Just done
anything I could to make a living, but mostly singing.
   ``As long as I've got my guitar, I don't think I'll go without
food.''
   She's proud of her country roots, doesn't want to live anywhere
else.
   ``Country is something that's born into you,'' she says. ``You
can't take a Yankee and make him a country boy.''
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv for Sunday, July 3</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0218 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1435EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>s a BC-APN--DisneyBoom Adv03-2Takes   06-20 0833</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-APN--Disney Boom, Adv 03-2 Takes,0860</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$Adv03</NOTE>
<HEAD>AGENCIES AND RADIO OUT</HEAD>
<NOTE>For Release Sunday, July 3</NOTE>
<HEAD>From AP Newsfeatures</HEAD>
<NOTE>(APN SUNDAY ILLUSTRATIONS: Mailed print subscribers get 2 b&w
photos.)</NOTE>
<TEXT>
   
   EDITOR'S NOTE _ Walt Disney World, which already has made a lot
of people in Florida rich, is under going its biggest expansion
since Epcot Center opened in 1982. But some retailers, hoteliers
and operators of the satellite tourist attractions are beginning to
worry that Disney will have to much to offer that tourists won't be
throwing as much money their way.
</TEXT>
<BYLINE>By IKE FLORES</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>LAKE BUENA VISTA, Fla. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The imagineers of Walt Disney
World have fashioned a $1 billion expansion of their Florida
playground, including a movie-TV production studio, a nightclub
complex, gigantic hotels and a retail shopping center.
   While much of the surrounding business community is delighted,
anticipating that a new influx of tourists will mean a continuing
supply of big bucks, a few skeptics exist.
   Some county officials and local leaders are concerned about the
effect on the economy, on traffic, the life style and utility
infrastructure of the two-county area that Disney dominates. A few
retailers, hotel people and operators of smaller attractions are
worried that Disney's expansion into more commercial activities
could mean more competition and less profit for them.
ohn Maynard Keynes that encourage
government deficits and more government control over the economy.
   After graduating from the London School of Economics in the
1920s with a doctoral degree, Hutt served as a pilot in the Royal
Air Force during World War II.
   He taught at the University of Cape Town in South Africa from
1926 until 1965 and was a leading critic of apartheid. His book,
``Economics of the Color Bar'', is considered a classic in the
field of economics and race relations.
   In the 1940s, Hutt helped found the Mont Pelerin Society, an
international organization of scholars supporting free enterprise.
   Hutt came to the United States in 1965 and lectured at the
University of Virginia, the University of Chicago, Stanford
University and Texas A&M University.
   He moved to Irving in 1971 and lectured at the University of
Dallas, serving as professor emeritus after his retirement in the
early 1980s.
   He is survived by his wife, Grethe Hutt.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0219 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1436EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>s a BC-APN--DisneyBoom Adv03-1stAdd   06-20 0783</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-APN--Disney Boom, Adv 03-1st Add,0805</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$Adv03</NOTE>
<HEAD>AGENCIES AND RADIO OUT</HEAD>
<NOTE>For Release Sunday, July 3</NOTE>
<HEAD>LAKE BUENA VISTA, Fla.: Kingdom, Epcot).</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   ``For the first time, guests will have the opportunity to see
actual television, movie and Disney animation production
first-hand,'' Nunis told an audience of business executives
recently.
   The studio complex will have a formidable rival in a new
MCA-Universal Studios Tour going up just a few miles away.
   Besides the sprawling and luxurious Grand Floridian Beach Resort
(an international-class hotel with rooms priced at $165 to $255 a
night), land is being cleared for what Disney officials call the
largest convention-hotel complex in the Southeast.
   It will feature a 1,520-room hotel (Florida's biggest) and a
smaller one with 200,000 square feet of convention space on a
150-acre site.
   Nearing completion nearby _ virtually across the street from
Epcot Center _ are the first 850 rooms of the more moderately
priced ($65-$85) Caribbean Beach resort. The ``tropical'' village
complex, surrounding a 42-acre lake complete with beach and palm
trees, is composed of clusters of pastel-colored, two-story
buildings.
   Caribbean Beach will contain more than 2,100 ``family-priced''
rooms when it is finished a year from now.
   When this phase of hotel construction is completed, Disney will
boast a total of about 12,000 hotel rooms.
   Also in the works is The Crossroads, a retail shopping mall just
outside the Disney Village. It will have an upscale supermarket and
the first McDonald's on Disney property when it opens this fall.
   Why all the construction, seemingly all at once?
   Some of the projects had been part of long-range plans for the
Florida property, company excutives say. Others _ such as the
studio complex, convention hotels, more retail outlets _ are part
of Disney's new look fostered by Eisner and President Frank Wells.
   The ebullient Eisner, 46, is given much of the credit for an
all-around revitalization of the company since it averted an
outside takeover in 1984.
   Disney's Touchstone Pictures has become the hottest movie-TV
studio in Hollywood, its consumer products division increased
profits by 34 percent last year, and Disney's theme parks in
Florida, California and Japan boasted record attendance and profits
in 1987.
   The Walt Disney Co.'s revenue was $2.8 billion, and its theme
parks and resorts brought in $1.8 billion of that, a 20 percent
increase over the previous year. Profits were $445 million.
   The company does not announce attendance figures, but analysts
figured visits to the Florida parks at about 24 million in fiscal
1987.
   The massive complex is exempt from most state or local
government control because of a special 1967 legislative act that
helped create Walt Disney World. Historically, government officials
have considered the coming of Disney _ and its continued expansion
_ a great economic boon to the Sunshine State.
   But explosive growth around it has prompted some impatience with
the status quo, and some area officials want to change or repeal
the act to make Disney more responsive to local conditions.
   Orange County Commissioner Lou Treadway, an outspoken proponent
of ``making Disney pay its way,'' contends that the company has
gone ``far and beyond'' the legislative intent, which he says was
merely to smooth the way for a theme park.
   ``When you get into building shopping centers, for instance,
that's a different story. That's not a tourist attraction,''
Treadway said.
   President Jerry Chicone Jr. of the Greater Orlando Chamber of
Commerce agrees with that to a certain extent.
   Disney is ``a wonderful institution'' that has been a good
neighbor for 15 years, Chicone says. But, he says, he has cautioned
company officials about building ``so many hotels'' and ``trying to
duplicate some of the things that are already here _ downtown or at
other tourist areas.''
   Businessmen have a healthy respect for Disney's clout.
   Bob Snow, developer of the Church Street Station nightclub
complex in downtown Orlando, sees Disney's Pleasure Island as
strong competition because, he says, ``they don't do things halfway
over there.''
   Economists and others, however, point to the tremendous growth
of tourism, and its benefits, brought on first by the Magic Kingdom
and then by Epcot Center.
   Along with visits to the Disney complex, tourists have boosted
attendance at Sea World, Busch Gardens in Tampa, Snow's Church
Street Station and even the Kennedy Space Center.
   The Disney boom has turned Orlando into a popular convention
city, now ranked among the top dozen in the country.
   Hotels, restaurants and smaller attractions have mushroomed as a
result of Disney's growth and massive advertising, and many of them
have gotten rich on the Disney fallout.
   ``Most of us are beneficiaries of the Walt Disney World
phenomenon,'' said Winter Park economist Martin Kessler.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv for Sunday, July 3</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0220 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1437EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>s i BC-APN--MexicoElections Adv03-2Takes   06-20 0965</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-APN--Mexico Elections, Adv 03-2 Takes,0995</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$Adv03</NOTE>
<HEAD>AGENCIES AND RADIO OUT</HEAD>
<NOTE>For Release Sunday, July 3</NOTE>
<HEAD>From AP Newsfeatures</HEAD>
<NOTE>(APN SUNDAY ILLUSTRATIONS: Mailed print subscribers get 2 b&w
photos. ColorFoto subscribers get 1 35mm slide.)</NOTE>
<TEXT>
   
   EDITOR'S NOTE _ Mexico's Institutional Revolutionary Party, or
PRI, has never lost a presidential election or gubernatorial race
since coming to power in 1929 and is not likely to in the elections
coming up on July 6. Nonetheless, with the country in an economic
crisis, critics of the PRI say it has outlived its usefulness and
now is addicted to power and bloated by corruption. There is a cry
for change growing among the country's 80 million citizens.
</TEXT>
<BYLINE>By SOLL SUSSMAN</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>MEXICO CITY (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Shocked by the political and economic
tensions of the 1980s, Mexicans are talking more frequently about
the need for change as they grope for a new sense of national
purpose.
   The process may stop short of national soul-searching, but there
has been widespread recognition of Mexico's difficulties and the
loss of credibility in a system of government that has lasted most
of this century.
   Even Carlos Salinas de Gortari, a certain winner in July 6
elections as the presidential candidate of the ruling Institutional
Revolutionary Party, talks consistently of the need for reforms.
   Salinas de Gortari's term will last until 1994, and the next
president will govern to the year 2000.
   The 21st century suddenly seems to be approaching very quickly
and is a handy reference point for the time when change inevitably
must occur.
   ``I think that the opposition is carrying out its struggle, and
with time, in the next century it will obtain political
positions,'' former President Luis Echeverria said recently in a
rare published interview.
   ``Until the next century?'' the reporter asked.
   ``That's not much time,'' Echeverria replied.
   The ruling party, known here as the PRI, has held power since
1929. It never has lost a presidential election or gubernatorial
race in any of Mexico's 31 states since its inception.
   So entrenched is it that a book that might be described as
political science fiction was published called, ``The Day the PRI
Lost.''
   It won't be July 6, 1988.
   Salinas de Gortari, budget secretary for President Miguel de la
Madrid until his nomination last fall, is certain to win over
divided opposition.
   Yet the opposition, most notably dissident Cuauhtemoc Cardenas
of the coalition Democratic National Front and Manuel J. Clouthier
of the conservative National Action Party, have generated an
unusual amount of attention through the long campaign.
   Mexico simply is no longer the largely rural nation in which the
PRI was formed to resolve the chaos lingering from the Mexican
Revolution of 1910-21.
   Now with more than 80 million inhabitants and the world's 13th
largest economy, Mexico is characterized more by offshore oil
platforms and teeming cities than the old stereotypes of ``charro''
hats and guitars still snapped up by foreign tourists.
   There is little doubt that a certain amount of repression and
vote fraud played some part in PRI control over the decades, but
the party also became a master at the art of consensus. It held out
that the ``social peace'' was being conserved, and an expanding
economy always was able to provide hope for the growing population.
   An old saying has it that the government first tried to make
friends with everyone. If that didn't work, it tried to buy you
off. And in the few cases where neither approach worked, it killed
you.
   The stress on that longstanding, pragmatic system increased in
1982, when international prices started falling for the petroleum
exports that had brought in unmatched prosperity for the previous
five years.
   ``La crisis'' _ ``the crisis'' _ has lasted throughout de la
Madrid's six-year term, causing a drop by some estimates of as much
as 50 percent in consumers' purchasing power and fraying the
patience of millions of Mexicans forced to make corresponding
cutbacks.
   A one-peso coin, worth about 4 cents just seven years ago, now
is negligible. New coins have been issued for 1,000 pesos, now
worth some 40 cents.
   ``The crisis reveals the incredible banality of the bourgeoisie
in power,'' wrote Carlos Monsivais, a leading essayist.
   Among the results he observed is ``the omnipresent idea of the
failure of the official nation.''
   Mexico City these days, except in its most luxurious
neighborhoods, has taken on a tattered, run-down look. Only part of
the cause is lingering damage from the devastating earthquake of
Sept. 19, 1985. Repairs and appearances generally are pushed back
for more pressing needs.
   Cars, taxis and trucks purchased during the oil boom years are
still on the streets _ some of them just barely. The number of
street vendors, entertainers and beggars has proliferated.
   The debate about the causes of the crisis and the ways to
resolve it has spilled most noticeably into Mexican cultural life.
   ``In this period marked by survival, popular nationalism is
expressed as anti-governmental malice, lack of confidence ...
cynicism and skepticism about the national future,'' Monsivais
wrote.
   Salinas de Gortari focused one of his campaign forums on
``Culture and National Identity,'' where he said: ``Mexican culture
is so strong that it is what is going to allow us to remain as an
independent nation.''
   ``The PRI has made national identity its own,'' poet, novelist
and ecological activist Homero Aridjis said. ``They've created a
symbiosis of the country with the governing system.''
   As a result, he said in an interview, those who criticize the
government often have been accused of attacking Mexico.
   Recent campaigns to whip up enthusiasm, especially on the
private Televisa broadcast network that pervades Mexico, have
focused on such national symbols as the red, white and green colors
that are shared by the country and the PRI.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>MORE</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0221 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1438EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>s i BC-APN--MexicoElections Adv03-1stAdd   06-20 0851</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-APN--Mexico Elections, Adv 03-1st Add,0881</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$Adv03</NOTE>
<HEAD>AGENCIES AND RADIO OUT</HEAD>
<NOTE>For Release Sunday, July 3</NOTE>
<HEAD>MEXICO CITY: the PRI.</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   ``People are tired of being manipulated,'' Aridjis said.
``People are less stupid than the government believes.''
   Even those who criticize the government most sharply refer to
the tremendous reservoir of Mexican culture that provides a base
for the nation.
   ``It has a solidity comparable to that of the old Oriental
cultures,'' Enrique Krauze, managing editor of the magazine Vuelta,
said at Salinas de Gortari's campaign forum. ``The profound Mexican
culture doesn't need to be defended from anyone other than its
defenders.''
   Vuelta was founded by Octavio Paz, the poet and essayist whose
``The Labyrinth of Solitude'' remains a key work in the search for
Mexican identity.
   The raw material for Mexican nationalism and culture runs deep,
far beyond the red, white and green.
   Each Sept. 15, 1 million Mexicans crowd the Zocalo plaza in
downtown Mexico City to commemorate the ``grito'' or shout of
independence in 1810.
   Just off the plaza, the ruins of the Aztec Indians' Great Temple
have been uncovered. The artifacts found there are on display in a
newly opened, magnificent museum.
   On Dec. 12 each year, hundreds of thousands of faithful visit
the Basilica of Our Lady of Guadalupe, the revered Roman Catholic
patron saint of Mexico whose image is found everywhere from
construction sites to the bedrooms of the wealthy.
   ``The PRI, Televisa and the (Catholic) church are the great
manipulators,'' Roberto Marquez, a 27-year-old artist who moved to
Phoenix, Ariz., three years ago, said in an interview.
   He said, however, that living abroad has given him a new
appreciation of the complexity of Mexico.
   ``I think that this is a moment of change, because the Mexican
Revolution already happened 60 years ago,'' Marquez said. ``Now,
the Mexican reality is something else. We can't keep on in the same
way.''
   ``In Mexico right now there's great skepticism, very strong
pessimism,'' said Luis Mandoki, the young director of the Academy
Award-nominated movie ``Gaby: A True Story.''
   He said that frustration among many Mexicans has not been able
to find an outlet because of the lack of organization among the
opposition.
   Others are milder in their evaluations.
   Philosopher Leopoldo Zea said resentment of the government's
inability to confront the economic crisis has not become
generalized anti-government feeling.
   He attributed that in part to the stoic nature often attributed
to the Mexican people, referring to a saying: ``The Indian gets
angry every 100 years, but when he gets angry, he gets really
angry.''
   The myths of modern Mexico blend the Indian and colonial Spanish
heritages into the mestizo, demonstrated in the Plaza of Three
Cultures that showcases Indian ruins, a colonial church and a
modern office tower.
   Reality also can include substantial racial and class
differences.
   Guadalupe Loaeza, a witty chronicler of the upper class, has
published her collected columns as ``Rich Girls.''
   She wrote that a wealthy woman who once traveled six times to
San Diego or Europe each year now goes just four times and
believes: ``How good that the peso was devalued, because now the
lines of `nacos' won't be as long for skiing.''
   ``Naco'' is the epithet for low class.
   The PRI traditionally has had its base in the working and
peasant classes, increasingly more open to modern ideas through the
spread of television and hit especially hard by the crisis.
   ``It's up in the air,'' Rafael Segovia, former director of the
prestigious Colegio de Mexico research institution, said in an
interview. ``Being Mexican has no other condition than being
Mexican. You don't have to paint like Diego Rivera.''
   Rivera and other artists earlier in this century turned to
``Mexican-ness,'' a search for identity in the supposedly pure
Indian roots of the nation.
   Most contemporary artists look elsewhere for images, however.
   ``It's certainly not the reality of the cities, not Mexico
City,'' said Marquez, the young artist.
   There may be too many different regions, classes and other
factors at work for modern Mexico to be summed up simply.
   ``There's a new search in light of what's happening,'' said
Arturo Azuela, a novelist and director of the school of philosophy
and letters at the National University of Mexico. ``I think that a
crucial work is going to come out very soon.''
   His father, Mariano Azuela, wrote ``The Underdogs,'' one of the
most famous novels about the Mexican Revolution.
   The opponents of the PRI say it has outlived its usefulness and
now is a creation addicted to power and bloated by corruption.
   Guadalupe Robles Romero, a 36-year-old administrator in the
government's Social Security Institute, walked into Cardenas'
offices last fall and now is a candidate for city assemblywoman in
her first experience in politics.
   ``I think that there's going to be change,'' she said. ``And not
in the long run _ in the short run.''
   The PRI has surprised in the past by displaying an astonishing
ability to adapt to the needs of the times. Salinas de Gortari and
his supporters say they can muster the necessary changes this time.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv for Sunday, July 3</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0222 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1439EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>s a BC-APN--SheepShearing Adv03   06-20 1107</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-APN--Sheep Shearing, Adv 03,1138</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$Adv03</NOTE>
<HEAD>AGENCIES AND RADIO OUT</HEAD>
<NOTE>For Release Sunday, July 3</NOTE>
<HEAD>From AP Newsfeatures</HEAD>
<NOTE>(APN SUNDAY ILLUSTRATIONS: Mailed print subscribers get 3 b&w
photos. ColorFoto subscribers get 1 35mm slide.)</NOTE>
<TEXT>
   
   EDITOR'S NOTE _ It's a school for do-it-yourself sheep shearers
in eastern Pennsylvania, where sheep farmers are largely
part-timers who have small flocks of 50 or less. But somebody still
hs to shear them and therein lies the problem. Commercial shearers
don't want to fool with small flocks.
</TEXT>
<BYLINE>By TARA BRADLEY-STECK</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>AMITY, Pa. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Shearing a sheep is nothing like cutting hair.
There's no delicacy, no style, and no one seems to mind if the
customer suffers a few nicks, scrapes or even gouges _ as long as
they're not near a vital organ.
   The idea is to cut off the fleece as quickly as possible
because, like little boys, sheep get fidgety around barbers.
   ``It's harder than it looks,'' says Shirley Mounts of
Claysville, wiping the sweat off her brow with the back of a hand
after tackling a half-shorn ewe seeking freedom. ``I'm always
afraid I'm going to cut the daylights out of them.''
   One sad ewe ambled off with about four sizable cuts, but nobody
seemed concerned.
   ``They're a long way from the heart,'' remarked one student as
Mrs. Mounts, 32, fretted over her blunders.
   Mrs. Mounts was one of 18 sheep fanciers who recently took a
class on how to cut fleece without cutting the animal. The two-day
program, sponsored by the Washington County agricultural extension
office, is held once a year during the spring shearing season in
this hilly, farm-studded corner of southwestern Pennsylvania.
   Sheep farmer David Horn opens up his large, wooden barn, perched
on a slope overlooking neatly grazed pastures, and provides
students with as many ``customers'' as they need to hone their
skills. In return, Horn gets about half of his flock of 180 shorn
for free, although the results are a little ragged.
   ``I was going to experiment with mine, but I'm sort of glad I
didn't. I think I would have killed them,'' said Dave Krupski, 30,
who raises 15 sheep on a relative's farm in Independence Township.
   ``It's hard work, believe it or not. A lot of them aren't lambs,
they're lions. Some will sit and lay in your lap, but the ones with
the horns are real feisty. I've done five sheep in eight hours, and
they say the Australians can do a sheep every 1{ minutes.''
   Agricultural extension agents say that after two days of
classes, students are able to shear a sheep in about five minutes.
   Speed means money to commercial shearers, who charge about $2 a
head. But for the students, who just want to learn enough to shear
their own flocks, speed means the difference between doing it right
and not doing it at all.
   Sheep get fussy if they're fussed over for too long.
   After years of hard times, sheep farming in this country is on
the rebound. In the West, it's a full-time job because flocks
number in the hundreds and thousands. But in Eastern states like
Pennsylvania, sheep farmers are largely part-timers who have small
flocks of 50 or fewer, says the appropriately named Joanna Shepherd
of the Washington County extension service.
   In Washington County and neighboring Greene County, the state's
two leading sheep-raising counties, commercial shearers are a
premium, she says. Sheep farmers, particularly those with small
flocks, have been turning to the classes mainly because they can't
find anyone to do the job.
   Last year, nine people signed up for beginning sheep shearing.
This year, 22 wanted to attend, but four had to be turned away
because there weren't enough instructors.
   ``We have only 35 sheep. People don't want to be bothered with
them,'' says Bill Smith, 39, of Lagonda. ``Then when you do find
someone, they don't show up till the end of June, and your sheep
are about dying from the heat.''
   At one end of the barn, extension agent Ed Wood coached a
teen-age boy on the importance of keeping his free hand away from
the clipper's sharp teeth.
   ``Get your hands out of the wool or you'll cut yourself,'' Wood
barked over the incessant buzzing of a dozen clippers.
   But as the teen moved his hand away, he failed to pull the skin
taut, causing the clippers to leave about a {-inch layer of fuzz.
   ``You're leaving too much wool on her,'' Wood complained. ``If
you sold wool you wouldn't have enough money to go out on Saturday
nights.''
   To get the maximum value for a fleece, it has to be cut closely
with long strokes so it comes off all in one piece. Shearers start
from the back left side, work up to the belly, head and back, and
then repeat the procedure on the right side, ending up at the back
right leg.
   Proper clipping technique means nothing, though, if the shearer
can't pin down a struggling, 130-pound sheep.
   ``You need to know where to put your legs, how to hold the
animal, how to stretch their skin,'' Ms. Shepherd says. ``You
concentrate on how to get the wool off later.''
   For Horn and most of the country's sheep farmers, who mainly
raise sheep for meat, wool is a secondary commodity. A fleece from
most meat breeds weighs about five pounds, with the price per pound
averaging just under $1, Ms. Shepherd says. After paying for the
price of shearing, the farmer makes about $3 per animal from the
wool.
   If the fleece is cut improperly or is too dirty or coarse, he
gets even less.
   Sheep are shorn late in the spring after cold weather has passed
but before the onset of summer's high temperatures. Domestic sheep
have to be shorn once a year to maintain a high-quality fleece and
to rid the animal of accumulated dirt and parasites. And it simply
helps them feel more comfortable.
   Sometimes, though, their drastic change in appearance is
unsettling _ especially to their own lambs.
   ``A lot of them don't recognize their mothers at first,'' Horn
says. ``They'll bawl for a while.''
   An increasing number of people in Pennsylvania are turning to
sheep as a hobby or to supplement their incomes, Ms. Shepherd says.
   ``People like sheep,'' she says. ``It's an animal most of us can
physically handle without a lot of fuss. They don't take a whole
lot, they just eat grass and a little bit of grain. And they're
nice. They must be, just look at what these students are doing to
them.''
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv for Sunday, July 3</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0223 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1440EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>s e BC-APN--TVWeek Adv03   06-20 0746</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-APN--TV Week, Adv 03,0763</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$Adv03</NOTE>
<HEAD>AGENCIES AND RADIO OUT</HEAD>
<NOTE>For Release Sunday, July 3</NOTE>
<HEAD>From AP Newsfeatures</HEAD>
<NOTE>(APN SUNDAY ILLUSTRATIONS: Mailed print subscribers get 1 b&w
photo.)</NOTE>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
<BYLINE>By JERRY BUCK</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>AP Television Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>LOS ANGELES (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Don Yesso, who'd never acted before, was
offered a role on the TV series ``Frank's Place'' when he met the
producer of the show while flying from New Orleans to Los Angeles
to look for a coaching job.
   Yesso plays Shorty, an assistant cook at the Chez Louisianne run
by Tim Reid in the critically acclaimed series. The show is not on
the CBS fall schedule, but the network says it definitely will
return when an ``advantageous time slot'' can be found.
   Hugh Wilson, the creater-producer of ``Frank's Place,'' was
struck by Yesso's wit, gift of gab and a New Orleans accent as
thick as gumbo. He figured it would be easier to teach Yesso how to
act than to teach a professional actor how to talk like a resident
of New Orleans' Ninth Ward. The accent, which is not quite Cajun or
Southern, is more akin to Brooklynese.
   ``I live here now,'' Yesso says. ``I like this stuff. I like
being a thespian.''
   Yesso, a mixture of Italian, French and American Indian, grew up
near the Irish Channel, about two or three miles from downtown New
Orleans. He graduated from Louisiana State University, where he
played football at LSU and was an NCAA weightlifting champion.
   He also worked as a bartender, manager of various nightclubs, a
sales representative and owner of a ``down-home'' delicatessen. His
only previous brush with the movie business came during college
when he had a non-speaking role as a bodyguard in a movie about
Huey P. Long.
   He tells how he met Wilson on a flight to the West Coast:
   ``Hugh came walking down the aisle of the plane and saw my
cigarette. He'd quit smoking 43 days earlier and asked for a
cigarette. He sat down and we had a drink and started talking about
New Orleans. Then he said he didn't know if he could work it out,
but how would I like to work on TV. I thought he was joking.
   ``I had to send in a photo and a resume. I sent them a Polaroid
snapshot. I stood on the sidewalk and waved. I looked like Tommy
Tourist. Hugh kept telling CBS it was easier to teach me how to act
than to teach an actor how to talk like I do. When he told me I had
the job I went out and bought three books on acting. Two of them I
couldn't read.''
   Yesso says he found his role as Shorty somewhat easy because he
had grown up in a neighborhood similar to that in ``Frank's Place.''
   ``It's supposed to be hard to look natural in front of a
camera,'' he says. ``I hate to sound cocky, but it came easy to me.
I guess I was lucky. I think Shorty and I are pretty
interchangeable. He's a little slow, but there's something about
him. The way I try to portray him is that he's a sensitive, lovable
guy. A man's man that the women find appealing.''
   Besides acting, Yesso wrote the Christmas show last year. He has
ideas for several more shows and is working on story ideas for
other series. He is also under consideration for roles in several
feature films.
   Apparently Johnny Carson is also taken with Yesso, who was
recently on ``The Tonight Show'' for his fourth appearance.
   ``The last time I was on, I had all my friends in the
audience,'' he says. ``Johnny found out about it later and said,
`Why didn't you tell me? I'd have brought them on stage.'''
   Even Carson finds it hard to resist friends named Stormin'
Norman, Bucket, the Dude, Dr. Vinny Boombah and his girlfriend,
BooBoo II, and Angigolo, which is a cross between Angelo and gigolo.
   ``Angelo thinks he's real smooth with the ladies,'' Yesso
explains. ``And Vinny used to have a girlfriend named BooBoo. He
liked the name so much he called his new girlfriend BooBoo II.''
   Yesso's friend Bucket recently had a son. The name? What else
but Pail?
   Yesso contends he perfected ``blackened'' food before chef Paul
Prudhomme made blackened redfish a national favorite. ``I've cooked
for years,'' he says, ``and being a bachelor, I blackened
everything. I didn't know it was fashionable.''
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv for Sunday, July 3</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0224 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1442EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>s e BC-APN--TheaterWeek Adv03   06-20 0899</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-APN--Theater Week, Adv 03,0919</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$adv03</NOTE>
<HEAD>AGENCIES AND RADIO OUT</HEAD>
<NOTE>For Release Sunday, July 3</NOTE>
<HEAD>From AP Newsfeatures</HEAD>
<NOTE>(APN SUNDAY ILLUSTRATIONS: Mailed print subscribers get 1 b&w
photo. ColorFoto subscribers get 1 35mm slide.)</NOTE>
<TEXT>
</TEXT>
<BYLINE>By MICHAEL KUCHWARA</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>AP Drama Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   It was the thorniest dilemma of the 1988 Tony
Awards:
   Three little-known but accomplished actresses with names that
sound confusingly similar _ Kimberleigh Aarn, Kimberly Scott and L.
Scott Caldwell.
   All three were from the same Broadway play, and all three were
nominated for a Tony in the same category. Their competition was
the talented and much better known performer, Kate Nelligan. But
when the winner was announced last month, it was L. Scott Caldwell,
taking the prize for best featured actress in a play.
   ``This is going to sound funny, but a part of me expected to
win,'' says Caldwell, pointing to her heart. ``In my head I didn't
think about it much because when I intellectualized it, I thought
`Well, the Tony voters might get mixed up about who's who and Kate
Nelligan is an established actress.'''
   In her Tony acceptance speech, the actress first thanked her
mother, brothers and sister back in Chicago.
   ``Because I was interested in the theater, they were,'' she
says. ``I converted them in a way, but they have always pushed me,
saying `You can do it.'''
   The interest was born in Chicago when Caldwell was 8 years old
and spent every afternoon in a South Side movie theater where a
friend of her mother's worked as a cleaning lady. For almost a
year, her baby sitters were stars like Joan Crawford, Bette Davis
and Loretta Young up on that big screen.
   ``I think that's how it kind of got to me,'' Caldwell recalls.
``I didn't say to myself `I want to be an actress' or anything like
that. But I loved film, and I loved what they did.''
   What they did was what she wanted to do, but it took a while for
her to realize that ambition to act. Her persistence paid off last
month when Caldwell picked up that Tony for her performance in
``Joe Turner's Come and Gone'' by August Wilson.
   The play, now on view at Broadway's Ethel Barrymore Theater, is
one in a series of works by Wilson chronicling the black experience
in America during the 20th century. Wilson plans one play for each
decade. So far, ``Ma Rainey's Black Bottom,'' ``Fences'' and ``Joe
Turner'' have made it to Broadway, and a fourth, ``The Piano
Lesson,'' is a possibility for next spring.
   ``Joe Turner'' is set in a Pittsburgh boarding house in 1911 and
concerns the children of slaves coming to terms with their past and
present. Each character searches for what Wilson refers to in the
play as their ``song.''
   In ``Joe Turner,'' Caldwell plays Bertha Holly, the patient,
practical wife of the boarding house owner. It's a role, she says,
that has softened her own, less optimistic view of life.
   ``I think it was a happy accident that I got this role because
I'm a cynical person,'' the actress says. ``I don't have a real
rosy view of the world. It's kind of cautiously optimistic. Bertha
is just positive through-and-through. It balances me out to play a
woman who doesn't have any question about who she is and about
life.''
   For Caldwell, the idea of becoming an actress didn't crystalize
until she was in high school and saw a production of Douglas Turner
Ward's ``Day of Absence'' at the Hyde Park Theater.
   ``It was the first time I saw black people on stage,'' she
recalls, ``and I thought `I could be up there.'''
   Her family didn't have the money to send her to drama school, so
Caldwell went to work as a telephone operator. She got married, had
a son and decided to go to college, majoring in communications and
theater at Loyola in Chicago.
   Her obsession with the theater grew when she saw Uta Hagen
discuss her acting school on a television talk show. Caldwell sent
for an application to HB Studios, the school Hagen runs with her
husband, and was told she would have to come to New York for an
audition.
   With her husband's approval, Caldwell came to New York in 1979
for what she thought would be a two-month visit. She ended up
staying, getting into Hagen's acting class as well as the Negro
Ensemble Company, run by Douglas Turner Ward.
   Caldwell made the difficult commitment to remain in New York.
Her marriage ended, and she sent her son, Ominara, back to Chicago
to live with his father. The boy, now 15, also was singled out for
special praise in Caldwell's Tony acceptance speech.
   But her professional career kept going forward. The job with the
Negro Ensemble Company blossomed into a role on Broadway when the
company's production of ``Home'' moved to the big time. Since then,
she has worked steadily in regional theater, soap operas and
commercials. Now ``Joe Turner'' has finally given her recognition
in the New York theater community.
   ``I'm very proud of the work I've done in `Joe Turner,'''
Caldwell says. ``I'm extremely proud of it because I feel the role
wasn't all there on paper. I felt I was able to give the character
three dimensions and I'm very, very happy about that.''
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv for Sunday, July 13</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0225 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1340EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>s i BC-Afghanistan-Future Adv26-2Takes   06-20 0906</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-Afghanistan-Future, Adv 26-2 Takes,0929</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$adv26</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release Sunday, June 26, and Thereafter</NOTE>
<HEAD>AP SPOTLIGHT: Afghanistan _ New, Maybe Bloodier, Chapter Begins</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: The main story of a package of three.</NOTE>
<HEAD>An AP Extra</HEAD>
<NOTE>With LaserPhoto</NOTE>
<NOTE>EDITOR'S NOTE </NOTE>
<TEXT>
   What lies ahead for Aghanistan as the Soviets
leave for home? A Marxist government is determined to retain power
but Moslem guerrillas are just as determined to oust it. Is a
sharpened battle shaping up between an atheistic political ideology
and a leading world religion? What happens when that battle is
over? Here is a report from a correspondent who has covered
Afghanistan from his base in neighboring Pakistan.
</TEXT>
<BYLINE>By BRYAN WILDER</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>ISLAMABAD, Pakistan (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   With the Soviet military withdrawal
from Afghanistan, a new chapter begins for the war-ravaged country.
Like the previous one, it too may be written in blood.
   For with the Soviets gone, the division between Afghan Marxism
and Islam, the predominant religion, becomes even sharper and the
prospect of even bloodier fighting is heightened.
   On the sidelines in Pakistan and Iran are more than 5 million
Afghan war refugees waiting to go back home in what will be the
largest mass movement of people since World War II.
   Afghans of all persuasions agree that 10 years of civil war, the
past eight with Soviet involvement, have changed their country
forever.
   Leaders of the Moslem insurgent groups based at Peshawar in
Pakistan have vowed to continue fighting until they topple the
Marxist government in Kabul, the capital, and proclaim Afghanistan
an Islamic republic.
   The Afghan communists appear confident they can hold their own
even with the Soviet military departed. While Soviet armed might is
leaving, Moscow's influence remains strong in the capital of the
nation that sits strategically at the Soviet Union's southern
underbelly.
   In a curious accord signed this spring in Geneva, the United
States and the Soviet Union agreed to continue arming their
respective clients until either side stops.
   The April 14 agreement set the guidelines for some 103,000
Soviet troops to withdraw from Afghanistan by Feb. 15, 1989. The
pullout began this past May 15.
   Pakistan, which has served as conduit for mainly U.S. arms to
the guerrillas, pledged with Kabul not to interfere in each other's
affairs but to work for the safe return of the Afghan refugees now
in Pakistan and Iran.
   ``The Geneva accord is not a peace accord in the real sense but
it gives the Soviet Union a face-saving pretext to end its
involvement in the war,'' said a Pakistani Foreign Ministry
spokesman, following the custom here that spokesmen remain
anonymous. ``The rest is up to the Afghans themselves.''
   The Afghan people are a tapestry of tribes and clans accustomed
to running their own affairs before the Marxist People's Democratic
Party of Afghanistan (PDPA) seized power in a bloody coup in April,
1978.
   It sparked a broad rebellion by devout Moslems, tribal warlords
and merchants.
   Soviet troops, aircraft and armor came in December 1979 with the
replacement of one pro-Moscow regime with another. The Soviets
eventually learned at a price what the United States also learned
in Vietnam: that even a superpower army is ill suited to fight a
determined guerrilla war.
   Eight years of experience and growing arms supplies from the
United States, China and Saudi Arabia have whipped the so-called
Islamic rebels into an effective fighting force. They have learned
to operate U.S. Stinger anti-aircraft missiles and other
sophisticated weapons.
   The guerrillas, known as the mujahedeen (holy warriors), already
have scored a series of successes since the Soviet Red Army started
its march home. The victories came mainly in the border regions of
eastern Afghanistan where Kabul's security forces were left behind.
   However, for a full victory the guerrillas would need to capture
Kabul and the Afghan capital is a fortress of Soviet-built
defenses. It would be a difficult task for the guerrillas to seize
it and overthrow the government, leaving them only with the
recourse of seeking a political, rather than military, victory.
   Najib, who uses one name as president of Afghanistan and head of
the ruling party, refuses to discuss the possibility of his defeat.
   Asked recently whether he would seek refugee abroad if the
guerrillas take over, the burly former chief of secret police said:
``We shall not allow such a thing.''
   Western diplomatic sources in Islamabad say, however, their
missions in Kabul have received reports of major construction under
way at Mazar-i-Sharif, the capital of northern Balkh province just
36 miles from the Soviet border.
   ``New intensive construction activity sponsored by the (ruling)
party has lent some credence to claims the PDPA might attempt to
establish a fallback position in the north should it be unable to
hold Kabul,'' said one Western embassy in a background report
issued on condition that its country remain anonymous.
   At the same time, most foreign analysts who keep watch on
Afghanistan predict the absence of the Soviets will unleash an
armed power struggle within the ranks of each of the opposing sides.
   Najib's own party, for example, is bitterly split between his
Parcham (Banner) wing and the Khalq (Masses) faction which
dominates the police and military. Even the Parchamites are divided
between Najib supporters and those of former leader Babrak Karmal,
whom Najib replaced in May 1986 ostensibly for health reasons.
   In Peshawar, the seven major mujahedeen parties are themselves
split between Moslem revolutionaries and moderate traditionalists.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>MORE</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0226 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1341EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>s i BC-Afghanistan-Future Adv26-1stadd   06-20 0661</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-Afghanistan-Future, Adv 26-1st add,0682</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$Adv26</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release Sunday, June 26, and Thereafter</NOTE>
<HEAD>ISLAMABAD: moderate traditionalists.</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   Exile and guerrilla leaders are known to have argued to the
point of drawing guns on each other, although publicly they put up
a united front.
   A third factor lies in the rival guerrilla groups inside
Afghanistan, who have a reputation for occasional internecine
clashes.
   Some analysts believe the coming months will show how much
loyalty guerrillas in the field have toward their Pakistan-based
political leaders, some of whom have never been in combat. The
combat guerrillas have made it clear they are willing fight to oust
the Marxists from Kabul but not to install someone in their place
who seeks only political power of his own.
   Despite differences, the mujahedeen alliance has formed its own
Afghan ``government'' based on the tenets of Islam.
   Gulbaddin Hekmatyar, the alliance chairman and head of the
radical Hezb-i-Islami group, said the new ``government'' is
preparing to set up in the mountains west of Kabul.
   He and other mujahedeen leaders stress that because they are
Sunni Moslems, their government would not be comparable to the
Shiite-run government of Iran.
   Sunnis, who form the majority of all Moslems worldwide, tend to
follow a more tolerant theology. They also lack the rigidity of
Shiite clergical structure that provides a natural chain of command
and communication for propagating Islamic-fundamentalist revolution.
   But whoever finally emerges the victor may rule a largely
apathetic people.
   In addition to the Afghans' tradition of local control, they
will be preoccupied with a massive reconstruction of homes, farms
and public works.
   Some Afghans in sun-baked refugee camps of Pakistan have begun
trickling home to areas controlled by the guerrillas. But
mujahedeen and foreign observers agree that the exodus probably
will begin a year from now.
   Alliance Chairman Hekmatyar, in a recent meeting with Western
private aid groups, listed four conditions for the safe return of
refugees: ``The withdrawal of all Russian forces, fall of Najib's
government, removal of all possibilities of war and defusing of all
antipersonnel mines.''
   The bearded, turbaned Hekmatyar estimated that 5.5 million land
mines planted by Soviet and Afghan government troops litter the
countryside from fertile valley to craggy mountain. Western
diplomats believe the figure is closer to 3 million.
   International Red Cross hospitals along Pakistan's border with
Afghanistan report an alarming increase in mine-related injuries.
   The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees predicts that
when the shooting finally stops, it will be followed by the
greatest migration of people since Moslem Pakistan was carved off
of Hindu India at the end of British rule in 1947.
   ``There will need to be a massive rehabilitation effort,'' said
Anthony Land, director of the High Commissioner's suboffice in
Peshawar, describing it as the largest such project in U.N. history.
   Hekmatyar recently said, ``The whole country is in ruins. Canals
and irrigation systems are badly damaged or destroyed.''
   Neither Afghans nor foreign experts agree to what extent the
Afghans will go back to their old feudal ways once the war is over.
   Isayal Ghairad, a 34-year-old former schoolteacher from
northeastern Kunar province, said the war ultimately may have a
positive effect.
   ``It has changed the political awareness of the people,'' he
said at his refugee camp, Munda No. 6 near Peshawar. ``Now they
know about socialism, they know Hekmatyar'' and other leaders.
   Masood Khalili, a spokesman for the Jamiat-i-Islami guerrilla
group, said the war also has been an education for his men.
   ``Some of these people, when they left Afghanistan, had never
seen a postage stamp. Now they can operate complicated weapons.
Their families have now seen what a city (Peshawar) looks like.''
   In Afghanistan the war goes on, but for the first time in a
decade of brutal fighting, the anti-Marxists have sniffed victory.
   ``Our morale is very high and the enemy's is weak,'' said a
guerrilla commander, Mahmood. ``We know we can win _ and so do
they.''
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv for Sunday, June 26</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0227 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1342EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>s i BC-Afghanistan-Rebels Adv26   06-20 0445</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-Afghanistan-Rebels, Adv 26,0457</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$adv26</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release Sunday, June 26, and Thereafter</NOTE>
<HEAD>AP SPOTLIGHT: Afghanistan _ Rebels Diverse but United, for Now</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: One of a package of three stories.</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By KATHY GANNON</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>PESHAWAR, Pakistan (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Although they put up a united front,
the leaders of Afghanistan's Moslem insurgents _ the mujahedeen
(holy warriors) _ are a diverse group.
   What unites them is a common belief in Islam and a determination
to crush the Marxists who run Afghanistan's government in Kabul.
   The seven-party mujahedeen alliance is mainly an arms conduit to
guerrillas fighting the Soviet and Afghan armies inside
Afghanistan. It also is an identifiable organization with which the
international community can deal.
   Here is a rundown of the leaders and groups:
   _Sibghatullah Mojadeddi, head of the Afghan National Liberation
Front, recently claimed his group would be among the strongest if
he received his fair slice of the supply pie.
   _The most visible and contentious of leaders is Gulbaddin
Hekmatyar, chief of the Hezb-i-Islami fighters and current chairman
of the alliance. The radical wing accuses him of of murder, theft
and fanning party rivalry. Still, Hezb-i-Islami has been a major
recipient of U.S., Chinese and Saudi Arabian arms.
   _A target of Hekmatyar's antagonism has been the
Jamiat-i-Islami, another fervent Moslem group but considered to be
one of the best military organizations. Its leader is the venerable
Professor Burhanuddin Rabbani, a Tajik, but the majority of Afghans
are Pathans like Hekmatyar.
   _Maulvi Yunis Khalis, the red-beareded, barrel-chested leader of
a faction that split off from Hekmatyar, is often called the
fighting mullah. He abruptly resigned as alliance chairman in
March. A month later, he was back fighting in Afghanistan.
   _The lightweight party on the radical wing is Abdul Rasul
Sayyaf's Ittehad-i-Islami. However, it spawned Ahmad Shah, newly
appointed president of an all-mujahedeen government.
   _Moderates also claim to be devout Moslems but are known for
their Western manners and tastes. They are Syed Ahmed Gailani's
National Islamic Front of Afghanistan, Maulvi Nabi Mohammadi's
Harakat Party and Mojadeddi's Nifa. All three are considered small
although Mojadeddi reportedly got an increase in arms supplies
recently when he resigned from the alliance then rejoined.
   Despite the differences and diversities, the insurgent military
strategies are increasingly more coordinated and the mujahedeen
have moved into several abandoned bases in Afghanistan without
infighting.
   The alliance maintains there will be no armed power play in
postwar Afghanistan.
   Perhaps a more reliable barometer is the man in the field. Many
guerrillas say they are prepared to die fighting the Marxist
government, but they will not fight for a political leader who
seeks only power.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv for Sunday, June 26</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0228 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1342EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>s i BC-Afghanistan-Border Adv26   06-20 0334</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-Afghanistan-Border, Adv 26,0349</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$adv26</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release Sunday, June 26, and Thereafter</NOTE>
<HEAD>AP SPOTLIGHT: Afghanistan _ The Pashans, a Tribe Inseparable</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: One of a package of three stories.</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By KATHY GANNON</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>TORKHAM, Pakistan (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The inscription chiseled in 1948 on the
turret-like gates separating Pakistan and Afghanistan reads: ``We
are brothers. No power on earth can separate us.''
   Not even the coils of barbed wire slumped along the border fence
like tumbleweed.
   ``Najib has made that, I have not,'' says one of three Afghan
soldiers peering through steel bars into Pakistan.
   Najib is the current leader of Afghanistan's Marxist government,
which has been fighting a guerrilla war with Pakistan-based Islamic
insurgents.
   The border bisects this village of 1,000 people in a valley of
the famed Khyber Pass through which the armies of Alexander the
Great, Genghis Khan and Great Britain marched in search of riches
in the East.
   People on each side live under different flags but consider
themselves Pathans, the ethnic majority of Afghanistan and
northwest Pakistan.
   They believe in the inscription on the gate, not the barricade.
   Most of the Afghan-Pakistani border is tribal territory and a
political no-man's land.
   The law is laid down by tribal chiefs like Nader Khan, leader of
the Afridi Pathan tribe.
   ``We may seem two different people but we are actually the
same,'' he said at his home on the Pakistan side.
   Khan says his people support the Afghan guerrillas, most of whom
also are Pathans. He says tribal members who have been found to be
aiding the Kabul government have been punished under tribal law.
   ``We have burned their homes down,'' he said.
   Najib is a Pathan and former acquaintance of Khan's, but now
they are enemies _ to a point.
   As Khan says, if Najib must flee Kabul he could come home to his
tribal area and feel safe.
   The Pathan code of ethics demands that.
   ``He can come,'' said the chief.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv for Sunday, June 26</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0229 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1343EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>s i BC-WestGermanEconomy Adv26-2Takes   06-20 0834</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-West German Economy, Adv 26-2 Takes,0857</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$Adv26</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release Sunday, June 26, and Thereafter</NOTE>
<HEAD>West German Experts See Something Awry with Economic Powerhouse</HEAD>
<HEAD>An AP Extra</HEAD>
<HEAD>LaserPhoto Planned</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By JOAN FISCHER</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>and</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>TERRENCE PETTY</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writers</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>BONN, West Germany (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   On the surface, West Germany is
booming.
   Flashy Mercedes-Benz sedans whip along the autobahns and
shoppers pack high-priced boutiques.
   Travel agencies beckon West Germans to exotic vacation spots,
and a new yuppie generation packs trendy bars after work.
   Yet, private economists looking below the surface and into the
fhing might be awry.
   They see weak spots in uture fear sometthe ``Wirtschaftswunder'' _
the Economic
Miracle that won West Germans acclaim not long after it got under
way 39 years ago with the proclamation of West Germany as a
separate nation.
   Specifically, these non-government economist see complacency and
sluggishness setting in between the lines of statistics that
continue to show economic strength.
   They believe the government must fire up the economy in some key
sectors, promote more investment by West German business and take
other measures to ensure that good times last.
   The United States thinks so too, but for one slightly different
reason: West Germans should buy more U.S. and other foreign goods
to reduce its trade surplus of around $70 billion.
   ``Eost important problem
stemming from slow economic growth is the country's high
unemployment rate.
   The rate last year averaged 8.9 percent, or about 2.23 million
people, compared with 6.1 percent in the United States.
   About 3 million of West Germany's 61.3 million people now live
on welfare, up from slightly more than 2 million in 1981. An
increasing number of recipients are the long-term unemployed, who
switch to welfare when their unemployment insurance runs out.
   Fears also run high that unemployment may be fueling hatred of
the 4.5 million foreigners living in West Germany, many of whom
were invited as workers during the country's economic booms of the
1960s and 1970s.
   This past October in Bremerhaven, an unemployment-plagued port,
voters elected a right-wing radical to the Bremen state legislature.
   But Interior Ministry officials strongly reject any suggestion
that high unemployment could lead to a widespread rise of extreme
right-wing sentiment, as in the years before Adolf Hitler's Third
Reich.
   ``In the 1960s, when the economy was booming, there was much
more right extremist activity here than there is today.'' said
Interior Ministry spokesman Michael-Andreas Butz.
   Government officials also point out that the estimated 25,200
known right-wing extremists are a very small percentage of the
country's population.
   Meanwhile, economic experts are predicting the country's economy
will actually slow down from an expected 2 percent growth rate this
year to 1.25 percent in 1989, despite a 4.2 percent growth
performance in the first quarter of this year.
   West Germany's economy grew by about 1.6 percent a year between
1982 and 1987, compared to 3.5 percent in Japan over the same
period and 2.6 percent in the United States.
   Among the more frequently mentioned as obstacles to improved
economic growth are laws curtailing store business hours, quotas on
licenses for new businesses, and labor laws that severely restrict
layoffs.
   ``These laws are great for people already set up with jobs or
businesses, but they make entry for newcomers very difficult,''
said Juergen Donges, vice president of the prestigious Institute
for World Economic Research in Kiel.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>MORE</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0230 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1347EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>s i BC-WestGermanEconomy Adv26-1stadd   06-20 0474</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-West German Economy, Adv 26-1st add,0491</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$Adv26</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release Sunday, June 26, and Thereafter</NOTE>
<HEAD>BONN: in Kiel.</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   Proposals to change such regulations face intense opposition
from private-interest groups and labor unions.
   For example, about 7,000 protesters hit the streets in Bonn on
May 29 to protest government proposals that would extend the hours
stores could stay open.
   Stores must close by 6:30 p.m. on weekdays and by 2 p.m. on
Saturdays. However, they can remain open all afternoon on one
Saturday a month.
   At the same time, workers and labor unons are pressuring to have
their work weeks shortened, without pay cuts.
   The country's biggest trade unions have declared a 35-hour work
week as their goal. The metalworking, automobile and printing
industries are already down to 38.5 hours, with contracts to reduce
it to 37 hours in the 1990s.
   The critics say fewer working hours mean less production.
   Government officials, however, insist that measures will be
taken to ensure healthy economic growth.
   They also reject the stinging claims made in the U.S. Congress'
report.
   Government spokesman Friedhelm Ost said: ``West Germany is
fulfilling its responsibility toward the world economy.''
   He pointed to the government's plans to reform its tax and
postal systems as means of stimulating greater West German
consumption.
   Grosser, the HWWA economist, doesn't agree with the United
States on the trade surplus and the suggestion that it could
seriously damage the world economy.
   ``I wouldn't consider this one of the problems hampering the
world economy in a very important sense,'' said Grosser. ``I think
this issue is often exaggerated.''
   He maintained that the U.S. budget and trade deficits have a far
greater impact on the world economy.
   The nation's wealth is further reflected by its 1987 gross
national product of $1.1 trillion, the third-highest in the
industrialized world.
   West Germany's automotive and chemical sectors remain especially
strong.
   In Japan, sales of West German cars last year were up 125
percent over the 1979 level while U.S. makers' sales were off 76
percent for the same period.
   Hoechst, the leading West German chemicals group, last year
posted a 10.4 percent after-tax profit and expects strong sales
this year as well, with much of its business overseas.
   Grosser says he isn't worried about the automotive and chemical
sectors.
   ``Our trade surplus may be a source of trouble with our friends,
but it still shows something very important about West Germany: The
quality of our work is highly respected,'' said Grosser.
   But some experts still insist that West Germans will have to be
more daring if they want to preserve the legacy of the
``Wirtschaftswunder.''
   ``There will have to be some new concepts in economic policies,
but in the end it will be better,'' said Ute Geipel, a West German
economist for the American-owned Citibank in Frankfurt.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv for Sunday, June 26</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0231 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1349EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>s i BC-Brazil-Wetlands Adv26-2Takes   06-20 0750</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-Brazil-Wetlands, Adv 26-2 Takes,0770</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$adv26</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release Sunday, June 26, and Thereafter</NOTE>
<HEAD>Huge South American Wetlands Threatened</HEAD>
<HEAD>An AP Extra</HEAD>
<NOTE>With LaserPhotos</NOTE>
<BYLINE>BY SUSANA HAYWARD</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>CUIABA, Brazil (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   In the heart of South America, a sprawling
wetlands that stretches 154,000 square miles into four countries is
imperiled by poachers, mercury poisoning and cocaine traffic.
   Called the Pantanal, it is a wildlife haven, a little-known
utopia for hundreds of bird species, waterfowl, wild marsh deer,
crocodiles, black-spotted jaguars, aquatic flowers and fresh-water
fish.
   The floodplain is slightly smaller than California, extending
for 54,000 square miles in Brazil and 100,000 square miles into
Bolivia, Paraguay and northern Argentina.
   It is known in parts of those other countries as the Gran Chaco.
   In Brazil's Pantanal, in the sparsely populated western states
of Mato Grosso and Mato Grosso do Sul, illegal but profitable
activities encroach on this paradise.
   Just last year, 2 million crocodiles were killed for their
hides. Countless other animal skins and live exotic birds were
smuggled out. Cocaine traffickers invaded the region in increasing
numbers. Prospectors separating gold from river silt left behind
some 40 tons of toxic mercury, poisoning fish, animals and people _
including themselves.
   ``It's a monumental problem,'' Guilherme Augusto Borges, a
biologist with Mato Grosso's environmental-protection agency, said
in an interview. He added that the full extent of damage to the
Pantanal is not known, and that research into the problem is in its
infant stages.
   ``But if it takes five years of study to find out what's
happening here, that's too long,'' Borges said. ``It may be too
late by then.''
   Every year from October to March the waters of the 840-mile
Paraguay River, the Pantanal's main water source, and its
tributaries flood two-thirds of the region.
   The high water strands cows shoulder-deep and sometimes brings
river snakes right to the doors of farmhouses. Without the floods,
there would be no Pantanal. The floods keep the swamp's delicate
ecosystem in balance. High water allows wildlife to breed and
discourages the Pantanal's main predator: man.
   Cyclical chaotic flooding, expected every decade or so and
occurring this year, threatening the lives of about 800,000 cattle,
also is part of the natural aquatic balance. Uncontrolled flooding
tends to be most serious around Corumba, on the Paraguay River in
Mato Grosso do Sul, just across the border from Bolivia.
   Mayor Hugo Silva da Costa of Corumba, a cancer surgeon turned
politician, said the flooding has been getting worse. This year the
waters in the region rose 22 feet _ seven feet above the level at
which swamp isles are inundated and trees die, depriving animals of
their habitat.
   ``The water gets higher and higher every year,'' the mayor said.
``The temperature is changing. And in the dry season there is less
water and less grass for grazing.''
   He added that he believed the changes were directly linked to
increased human activity in the Pantanal.
   ``The Pantanal is suffering, and something has to be done
fast,'' said da Costa, who in April declared a state of emergency
in Corumba.
   Osvaldo da Cunha, a physician and the owner of a 29,000-acre
ranch 75 miles from Cuiaba, Mato Grosso's capital, says a new
environmental abuse in the Pantanal comes from farms where dikes
are built to hold off flooding and chemical pesticides are used to
grow rice, corn and soybeans.
   ``With dikes, the land can be used year round,'' he said. ``But
the water barriers upset the natural cycle.''
   Da Cunha said also that crocodile hunting in the Pantanal, now
illegal but almost impossible to control, may become legal because
of the ``violent economic pressure'' because of Brazil's chronic
unemployment and runaway inflation.
   To discourage poachers from invading his Santa Inez Ranch, da
Cunha has begun a laborious process of ``fingerprinting'' his
caiman crocodiles, cousins of the alligators found in the southern
United States, much in the style of the branding of cattle.
   Biologist Anacleto Garcia de Arruda, 26, who is in charge of the
project, midnight rounds in a canoe, grabbing crocodiles by the
neck.
   He starts with baby caimans, weighing them, counting their teeth
and pinning colored sequins on their scales to identify them
through maturity. He says he has no idea of the number of
crocodiles on the ranch and that the ``branding'' process will take
four years.
   The caimans are easy prey for poachers who at night paralyze
them with strong flashlights beamed into their crimson,
reflector-like eyes. Then they shoot them.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>MORE</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0232 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1351EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>s i BC-Brazil-Wetlands Adv26-1stadd   06-20 0561</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-Brazil-Wetlands, Adv 26-1st add,0574</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$adv26</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release Sunday, June 26, and Thereafter</NOTE>
<HEAD>CUIABA: shoot them.</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   Caiman hides are considered third rate in the international
fashion market and sell for the equivalent of just $10 apiece.
Still, they are good enough for making popularly priced women's
shoes, belts and handbags, and so clandestine hunters find them
profitable.
   The police say a flourishing crocodile hide-for-cocaine trade
exists in the Pantanal, but they have yet to catch anyone.
   In Corumba alone, 660 pounds of cocaine were seized last year.
On the other side of the river, in Puerto Suarez, Bolivia, which
has 1,200 people and 490 taxis, stuffed caimans are displayed in
souvenir shops. Corumba is believed to be a main gateway for
Bolivian cocaine.
   In Pocone, a tiny Pantanal town 75 miles from Cuiaba, the
environmental threat stems from an uncontrolled gold rush. Taxi
drivers quote prices in gold instead of in Brazil's weak cruzado
currency. Practically every other store buys and sells gold.
   But in the environs, the mercury used in the primitive
extraction of gold has left its mark: hollow trees decaying like
skeletons.
   ``People want gold, and they don't care how they take it out,''
said Catia Nunes da Cunha, coordinator of Mato Grosso's
environmental agency.
   In 1987, tens of thousands of rough, free-lance prospectors used
mercury to extract an estimated 50 tons of Brazilian gold, much of
it from the northern Pantanal. Much of that reportedly was smuggled
out of Brazil and never appeared on official registers, according
to the environmental agency.
   About 60 percent of the mercury in the gold processing remains
as an environment-polluting residue, Ms. da Cunha said. Mercury
poisons wildlife and people. Gold prospectors themselves are
affected by it when they eat Pantanal fish and game, often winding
up with nervous disorders and transmitting birth defects to their
offspring.
   Brazil's environmental laws severely restrict the use of
mercury, but in the remote Pantanal the laws are widely ignored.
   The evironmental situation in the wetlands would be worse were
it not for the ``Pantaneiros,'' as the wetlands' natives are called
in Brazil's Portuguese language. They mostly are ``swamp cowboys''
working for local ranches who take it upon themselves to try to
counter the poachers and gold miners.
   These unofficial law enforcers and conservationists, often
piloting river canoes, try to care for endangered crocodiles,
jaguars, river otters, wild swamp deer, giant anteaters and
capybaras, the world's largest rodents, which look like pig-sized
rabbits but without ears.
   The Pantaneiros also help protect macaws, sapphire-colored
tropical parrots with yellow-ringed eyes, which often fetch $10,000
apiece overseas and which by law can't be killed or exported from
Brazil. The Pantaneiros say poachers trap macaws and other members
of the parrot family by brushing glue on trees where the birds
perch.
   Douglas Trent, an American tourist agent now living in Brazil,
says ``rational, sustainable'' tourism can help save the Pantanal
by increasing international awareness of the region.
   ``But it must be done with caution,'' he said. ``Tourism also
can destroy. Caimans eat plastic film cannisters but don't digest
them. Birds choke on candy wrappers and get their feet caught in
fishing lines.''
   Arne Sucksdorf, an award-winning filmmaker who left his native
Sweden two decades ago to live in and document the Pantanal, said,
``The Pantanal is a legend, but it is being killed.''
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv for Sunday, June 26</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0233 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 2153EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>a e BC-WeekendTV-Helmond Adv01-03   06-20 0729</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-Weekend TV-Helmond, Adv 01-03,0742</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$Adv01</NOTE>
<NOTE>$Adv03</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release Weekend Editions, July 1-3, and Thereafter</NOTE>
<HEAD>Helmond: Role on Hit Show an `Afterthought'</HEAD>
<NOTE>With LaserPhoto</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By JERRY BUCK</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>AP Television Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>LOS ANGELES (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Katherine Helmond's juicy role as the hip
mother with the swinging lifestyle was an afterthought when the hit
ABC comedy ``Who's the Boss?'' was being created, the actress said.
   ``The show was originally written for two sisters, one a working
woman and one with lots of children,'' said Helmond. ``One was a
go-getter, the other was very domestic.
   ``But they found that combination never clicked. They read a lot
of young ladies. But they felt it turned out to be kind of sour
grapes. Each sister seemed a little envious of the other. No matter
how many times they rehearsed it, they couldn't make it funny.''
   It finally occurred to the producers to give Judith Light a
mother as a sparring partner. Tony Danza stars as an ex-boxer who
becomes a housekeeper.
   ``When my name came up at a casting session I was doing a play
in San Francisco,'' said Helmond, who plays Mona Robinson. ``I
asked them, `What are you looking for?' They said a mother who
causes trouble, but in a funny way. I said she'd have to be someone
underfoot all the time. I got ideas from my grandmother who lived
with us. She was very funny, very even-handed and right in the
middle of everything. A big, strapping Irish woman with red hair,
one of those Texas women who says whatever she thinks.''
   The pilot for ``Who's the Boss?'' created a triangle of three
totally different people.
   ``But somehow, that triangle works,'' she said. ``This man who
takes care of the house, a highly successful woman who can't do a
thing at home and her mother. I think a lot of families today are
made up of different elements. Two divorced women living together,
two fathers. I think the cost of living today has contributed to
these kind of made-up families.''
   Helmond grew up in Galveston, Texas, and got her early dramatic
training in Houston and Dallas. She moved on to New York, where she
was nominated for a Tony for her performance in Eugene O'Neill's
``The Great God Brown'' in 1973. She was in numerous other
productions, but she's best known for her role as Jessica Tate in
the satirical comedy series ``Soap.''
   Her latest movie is ``Shadey,'' made in England, but she's also
been in ``Time Bandits,'' ``Brazil,'' ``Overboard,'' ``Family
Plot,'' ``The Hindenburg'' and ``The Baby Blue Marine.''
   She is married to sculptor David Christian, but lately he has
also taken up writing. He recently adapted a short story by
Somerset Maugham for a TV film to be called ``Plain Jane.''
   ``He had to update it,'' she said. ``We didn't realize how
difficult it would be to get the rights. It took 18 months because
there are so many heirs. And the British don't move very fast.
   ``I'll play Jane. I think we may do it in Texas because we'd get
some help there. Jane's a woman who goes through a total
metamorphosis. She changes as does the world around her. She
becomes a woman who can live in the world.''
   Her husband started writing when she enrolled in the women's
directing program at the American Film Institute. She needed a
project immediately, so he adapted a Raymond Carver short story.
Her film ``Bankrupt'' is one of six films from the course that was
selected to be shown on the Arts & Entertainment Channel.
   She and Christian own homes in Los Angeles and Long Island and
have apartments in New York and London.
   ``We've just gone through remodeling our home here,'' she said.
``It was a 1932 house, and all the wiring and plumbing had to be
redone. The city building inspector gave it approval the other day.
It took two years. We're giving a big party for all the workers and
our neighbors, who also had to put up with all the inconvenience.
   ``Our London apartment is in an old neighborhood near Baker
Street. I love going to the fishmonger, the greengrocer, the
bakery. You have to bring your own plastic bags. The first time,
they asked me if I had any plastic. I thought they meant a credit
card.''
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv for Weekend Editions, July 1-3</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0234 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 2142EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>a e BC-WKD--FilmReview Adv00   06-20 0646</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-WKD--Film Review, Adv 00,0656</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$Adv00</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release Anytime</NOTE>
<HEAD>AP WEEKEND ENTERTAINMENT AND ARTS</HEAD>
<HEAD>At the Movies: ``Who Framed Roger Rabbit''</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By BOB THOMAS</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<TEXT>
   Imagine Donald Duck and Daffy Duck playing a madcap piano duet
together, Mickey Mouse and Bugs Bunny falling airily from the sky
and Betty Boop in a nightclub lamenting she is a black-and-white
has-been while her rivals appear in color.
   Imagine just about every movie cartoon star you've ever seen,
and you've got the supporting cast of Touchstone Pictures, ``Who
Framed Roger Rabbit.'' It is one of the cleverest feats of
legerdemain ever to appear on a movie screen.
   All hands _ and the credits run longer than those of ``Star
Wars'' _ are to be congratulated for their talent and, no doubt,
patience. It is staggering to contemplate the amount of hours
required to pull off such a stunt.
   Suspension of belief is necessary at the outset. The moviemakers
would have us believe that in 1947 Hollywood there was a place
called Toon Town, where all the cartoon characters worked. Not only
worked, but lived, breathed and intermingled with humans and
filmmakers who put their cartoons together.
   We see this at the very beginning, when a comic named Roger
Rabbit is blowing a scene with co-star Baby Herman. The human
director bawls out Roger and calls lunch. Studio boss R.K. Maroon
(Alan Tilvern) hires the seedy, booze-slugging private eye Eddie
Valiant (Bob Hoskins) to discover what is troubling Roger.
   It seems that Roger worries that he is being two-timed by his
wife, a slinky siren with a battleship chest. Hoskins reluctantly
takes the job and soon finds there is more trouble in Toon Town
than anyone suspected. A cadaverous, black-cloaked ``judge''
(Christopher Lloyd) is trying to gain control of the studios so he
can sell them for a freeway. He is aided by a gang of blood-thirsty
weasels.
   The guiding force behind ``Who Framed Roger Rabbit'' was
undoubtedly Robert Zemeckis, who directed the last big success for
Steven Spielberg, ``Back to the Future.'' Aided by a witty script
by Jeffrey Price and Peter Seaman, Zemeckis retains control
throughout what must have been an agonizingly complicated
production.
   Never have animation and live action combined so seamlessly.
Director of animation Richard Johnson and his artists deserve high
praise for their achievement, meanwhile maintaining the integrity
of the many cartoon stars.
   Bob Hoskins is perfect as the hapless gumshoe, eloquently
expressing fear, outrage and occasional compassion. Joanna Cassidy
is equally effective as his long-suffering moll. Christopher Lloyd,
scarcely recognizable as the evil mastermind, is an ideal villain.
   OK, so ``Who Framed Roger Rabbit'' is masterfully produced, but
is it hilarious? Not very often. There are some funny gags, as when
Hoskins enters a Toon Town night club with the password: ``Walt
sent me.'' The cartoon gags are the standard ones of gravity
defiance and sock! bam! pow!
   The most fun is the appearance of long-loved characters in new
settings. A hippo ballerina from ``Fantasia'' sits down on a studio
bench and a man on the other end zooms into space. Dumbo flies
outside a second-floor window and the studio boss throws peanuts to
him.
   ``Who Framed Roger Rabbit'' was produced by Robert Watts and
Frank Kennedy with Steven Spielberg and Kathleen Kennedy as
executive producers. The rating is PG, with lots of scary stuff to
frighten the very young. Running time: 103 minutes.
</TEXT>
<TEXT>
   Motion Picture Association of America rating definitions:
   G _ General audiences. All ages admitted.
   PG _ Parental guidance suggested. Some material may not be
suitable for children.
   PG-13 _ Special parental guidance strongly suggested for
children under 13. Some material may be inappropriate for young
children.
   R _ Restricted. Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult
guardian.
   X _ No one under 17 admitted. Some states may have higher age
restrictions.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv for Release Anytime</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0235 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 2143EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>a e BC-WKD--HomeVideo Adv00   06-20 1017</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-WKD--Home Video, Adv 00,1055</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$Adv00</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release Anytime</NOTE>
<HEAD>AP WEEKEND ENTERTAINMENT AND ARTS</HEAD>
<HEAD>Video View: Home Video News and Reviews</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By DOLORES BARCLAY</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>AP Arts Editor</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Twenty years ago, George Romero probably didn't
envision that his modest little horror movie, ``Night of the Living
Dead,'' would mutate into decades of celluloid zombies.
   But the dead rose again and again until Ken Wiederhorn's recent
``Return of the Living Dead, Part II,'' which Lorimar Home Video
has released. But unlike Romero's heroic scare effort in which
radiation turns corpses into killers, the latest work is a
mindless, boring tale about a green vapor that turns the living
into zombies who love to eat brains.
   Since the ``Living Dead'' movies have a cult following, Lorimar
is spicing up its release with a toll-free telephone number which
will enable viewers to order wearables including tank tops,
T-shirts and sweartshirts.
   The R-rated video on VHS and Beta retails for $89.95.
   Other home video companies also have commercial or merchandising
tie-ins.
   Walt Disney Home Video is sponsoring a sweepstakes with its
release of ``Benji the Hunted.'' The prize is a trip for four to
Walt Disney World for four days and three nights, plus $1,000. All
viewers have to do is answer two trivia questions about ``Benji''
and fill out an entry form, which will be available at video stores.
   MCA Home Video is offering a rebate for ``E.T. The
Extra-Terrestrial,'' which will retail for $24.95, for those
viewers who buy Pepsi products and mail in the proof of purchase.
   Another sweepstakes is being offered with the release of this
year's Academy Award-winner, ``The Last Emperor,'' which will be
available to home viewers from Nelson Entertainment on Aug. 31. The
movie, which won nine Oscars, will retail for $89.98.
   The radio promotion sweepstakes for ``The Last Emperor'' offers
a grand prize of a trip to Hong Kong and the Forbidden City in
China.
   Videos reviewed this week: ``Suspect'' and ``Citizens Band.''
</TEXT>
<TEXT>
   
   ``Suspect'' (RCA-Columbia Home Video; VHS-Beta, $89.95; Rated R)
   
   ``Suspect'' begins with seemingly unconnected events: A Supreme
Court justice blows his brains out; a woman's body is found lying
in the Potomac River, the victim, apparently, of vagrants.
   These are the raw _ in every sense of the word _ ingredients of
this surprisingly droll, diverting whodunit based in Washington
that takes a few choice pokes at politics along the way.
   It may even remind you of the real-life Watergate break-in. That
was no ordinary burglary. This is no ordinary murder.
   Some advice to viewers, without giving away the ending: Suspect
everyone. Everyone.
   Cher plays Kathleen Riley, a somewhat world-weary public
defender with an interesting touch of diffidence. She is assigned
to defend a violence-prone deaf vagrant who is accused of the
murder.
   Along comes Eddie Sanger, a Washington milk lobbyist played with
convincing sleaze by Dennis Quaid. Sanger gets named to the jury on
thismurder case. Sanger, apparently wiser in the ways and wiles of
official Washington, senses that the deaf defendant may be the fall
guy for some very powerful villains.
   He starts playing detective and feeds Cher the clues that nearly
get them both killed, but which ultimately solve the crime.
   All right, all right _ it's jury tampering, but let's not be
picky.
   The end of ``Suspect,'' written by Eric Roth and directed by
Peter Yates, is somewhat disappointing. We'd have respected Cher
much more if she didn't melt with a girlish giggle into the arms of
Quaid.
   And the body of the dead woman is so obviously a dummy that you
want to ask the studio why they were too cheap to arrange for a
halfway convincing corpus delicti.
   _ By Lee Mitgang, Associated Press Writer.
</TEXT>
<TEXT>
   
   ``Citizens Band'' (Paramount Home Video; VHS, $59.95; Rated PG)
   
   ``Citizens Band,'' released in 1977 when the CB radio craze was
at its height, is one of few American films of recent years that
may rank with the screwball comedies of the 1930s or Frank Capra's
whimsical slices of Americana.
   Set in a small town, this gently funny movie brings to life a
rich and diverse assortment of characters, including a
down-on-her-luck prostitute, an embittered high school basketball
coach and a bigamous long-haul truck driver _ all of whom rely
heavily on their citizens band radios to relate to the outside
world.
   The hero, known by his CB ``handle'' of Spider, is a radio
repairman trying to cope with his brother, his ex-girl friend and
his aging father, a retired trucker who keeps threatening to eat
the family dog. Spider, played by Paul Le Mat, becomes a sort of
airwaves vigilante, tracking down the many eccentrics in the
community who use their CBs for illicit purposes or rudely cross
into other people's channels.
   Screenwriter Paul Brickman (who later wrote and directed ``Risky
Business'') and director Jonathan Demme (``Melvin and Howard'' and
``Something Wild'') brilliantly weave this zany assortment of
characters into a cohesive plot.
   But they do even more _ the citizens band radio becomes a
metaphor for the alienation and self-deception that are part of the
modern human condition. And when the characters overcome their
confusions and misunderstandings and break through their isolation,
the result is an ending that's not just happy, but joyous.
   In a truly ensemble cast, all the performers are first-rate.
Perhaps deserving special mention are Roberts Blossom, as Spider's
crotchety father, and Marcia Rodd and Ann Wedgeworth as the
trucker's wives who discover they are married to the same man and
resolve their predicament with amazing good humor and aplomb.
   _ By Mike Silverman, Associated Press Writer.
</TEXT>
<TEXT>
   Motion Picture Association of America rating definitions:
   G _ General audiences. All ages admitted.
   PG _ Parental guidance suggested. Some material may not be
suitable for children.
   PG-13 _ Special parental guidance strongly suggested for
children under 13. Some material may be inappropriate for young
children.
   R _ Restricted. Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult
guardian.
   X _ No one under 17 admitted. Some states may have higher age
restrictions.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv for Release Anytime</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0236 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 2146EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>a e BC-WKD--RecordReviews Adv00   06-20 0580</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-WKD--Record Reviews, Adv 00,0604</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$Adv00</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release Anytime</NOTE>
<HEAD>AP WEEKEND ENTERTAINMENT AND ARTS</HEAD>
<HEAD>In the Groove: Record Reviews</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   
   ``The Mona Lisa's Sister'' (RCA) _ Graham Parker
   
   It's only the second verse of the first song on ``The Mona
Lisa's Sister'' when Graham Parker lets fly against one of his pet
peeves.
   ``Some people are in charge of pens,'' he spits. ``That
shouldn't be in charge of brooms. They have the nerve to rip up a
man's life in a paragraph or two.''
   Lighten up, Graham. We like you. And we like your album.
   Parker, a soulful British rocker, burns with an intensity you
can see through sunglasses. He bitterly left two record companies
when they didn't make him the star he, and others, thought he
should be.
   ``The Mona Lisa's Sister,'' is his 10th album and one of his
best. Parker has stripped down his music, with an acoustic guitar
the anchor instead of his rollicking former backup band, the
Rumour. It's a smart move, since the songs lose nothing in power
and Parker's strong melodies are accented.
   All this would mean little, of course, if the songs weren't
there, and this is Parker's strongest collection since 1979's
``Squeezing Out Sparks.''
   Parker has a keen eye for injustices of any sort, and along with
critics, he takes apart polluters, big defense spenders,
hypocritical yuppies, girls who grow up too fast and shallow
successes.
   ``Somebody's pouring salt on a wound,'' he sings in ``OK
Hieronymus.'' ``Scooping out monkey's brains with a spoon. Working
up warfare on the moon, that's just the latest phase. We just want
to curl up and die.''
   Fortunately, Parker's world view is not entirely negative. On
the fine ballad, ``Blue Highways,'' he recognizes there's a better
America beyond what he doesn't like on the surface.
   And the album closes with a gorgeous version of Sam Cooke's
``Cupid.'' The idea isn't new, but rarely has the sense of love as
a salvation been carried out so well on a record.
   _ By David Bauder, Associated Press Writer.
</TEXT>
<TEXT>
   
   ``Aliens Ate My Buick'' (EMI-Manhattan) _ Thomas Dolby
   
   Thomas Dolby's new album secures him a place next to Howard
Jones as the best of the synthmeisters.
   Dolby might cringe at that label, because synthesizers are often
associated with droning, shallow music, and ``Aliens Ate My Buick''
is anything but that. Instead it's hip, witty, intelligent and
highly musical.
   It doesn't take long for Dolby to hit high gear on the opening
cut, ``The Key to Her Ferrari.'' After an introductory voiceover by
Robin Leach, Dolby sings, ``I don't want your love; I don't want
your money; I just want the key to your Ferrari.'' The record's
tone is set.
   Other highlights include ``My Brain Is Like a Sieve,'' which
along with a great title features a beguiling melody; ``Hot
Sauce,'' a George Clinton composition that will steam up any dance
floor with its groove and lyrics; and ``Airhead,'' in which Dolby
sings about a woman friend:
   ``She's an airhead: stun gun and mace; Kharmann Ghia plates say
`Lost in Space.'''
   Dolby sings in French and Latin, impersonates a Jamaican and
calls on actor Ed Asner for a cameo. Searing guitar breaks, snappy
bass lines and even a trombone help keep the synthesizers in their
place. The artist's name notwithstanding, there's no need for noise
reduction on ``Aliens Ate My Buick.''
   _ By Steven Wine, Associated Press Writer.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv for Release Anytime</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0237 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 2147EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>a e BC-WKD--Sheen Adv01-03   06-20 0895</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-WKD--Sheen, Adv 01-03,0910</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$Adv01</NOTE>
<NOTE>$Adv03</NOTE>
<NOTE>$Adv03</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release Weekend Editions, July 1-3 and Thereafter</NOTE>
<HEAD>AP WEEKEND ENTERTAINMENT AND ARTS</HEAD>
<HEAD>Star Watch: Director Martin Sheen</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By BOB THOMAS</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>LOS ANGELES (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Not content with being a ``hired hand'' as
well as head of an acting dynasty, Martin Sheen has taken the leap
into the treacherous world of film production.
   The chairman of the board of Symphony Pictures is proud of two
current films he fostered: ``Judgment in Berlin,'' a Cold War
adventure and courtroom drama; and ``Da,'' based on the hit play by
Hugh Leonard. Sheen stars in both movies and also served as
executive producer for the projects.
   ``I had wanted for a very long time to be more than a hired
hand,'' he said. ``I wanted to have more say in the choice of
material from start to finish and to realize a personal vision. I
think most actors who want a long career feel that way.
   ``This presented an opportunity to pursue that intention _
basically not to be at the whim of a producer or a project because
of financial or professional need. I can't think of a television or
theatrical movie or a play that I didn't want to project some
personal change into. It becomes very frustrating because you're
always at the mercy of the director, the editor or whoever.''
   Both new films were hard sells. ``Judgment in Berlin,'' based on
the book by Judge Herbert J. Stern, combined a plane hijacking and
a court case. Sheen and his partner, William Greeblatt, could find
no company for the project until they uttered the magic words: Sean
Penn. The hot young actor agreed to play a small but vital role in
the movie because his father, Leo Penn, was directing. New Line
Cinema agreed to finance the film.
   ``When Sean came into the picture, in large measure to support
his father, he had a supporting, not a starring role,'' Sheen said.
``For him to have shown so much respect for his father and to risk
a measure of his own career, we owed him a huge debt of gratitude.''
   Sheen, who is half Irish, fell in love with ``Da'' when he first
saw the play 10 years ago. It tells of a New York playwright who
returns to his native Ireland to bury his father. But the old man
returns to life in the son's memory to relive their troubled lives
together. The play won a Tony award for the veteran American actor,
Barnard Hughes, who also stars in the movie version.
   ``Bill (Greenblatt) and I were flabbergasted when we tried to
acquire the rights for `Da' and found them available,'' Sheen said.
``We were told by Bill Leonard that there had been an arduous
journey for many people who had tried to get the screen version
made.
   ``We couldn't get anyone interested, not even a network; we
would have settled for getting a television presentation done. We
were told: `Nothing really happens _ no car chases, no violence, no
sex, nothing to attract a modern audience.' We believed there was
an audience for a show that came from the heart, a show about human
relationships.''
   FilmDallas agreed to sponsor ``Da,'' and Matt Clark directed it
on locations in Ireland.
   Production companies can sometimes seem like ego trips for
actors. That doesn't appear to be the case with Sheen. While he has
been praised for his solid competence, reviewers have lavished
praise on Penn in ``Judgment at Berlin,'' and on Hughes in ``Da.''
That doesn't bother Sheen.
   ``I always want to work with the very best talents available,''
he said. ``I couldn't be happier than to have had the opportunity
to work with these two extraordinary actors. I say that as a fellow
actor, but also as a producer.''
   Martin Sheen was born Ramon Estevez 47 years ago in Dayton,
Ohio, one of 10 children of a Spanish father and Irish mother. He
left Dayton after high school to study acting in New York, and he
changed his name to Martin Sheen. The play and movie of ``The
Subject Was Roses'' brought him to prominence, and he has been
working ever since, always at others' bidding _ until now.
   Symphony Pictures has a heavy schedule ahead, including ``Out of
Control'' with Al Pacino; ``Illusions,'' based on the Richard and
Leslie Bach book; plus a number of TV projects. Several have social
implications, expectably from political activist Sheen.
   What about hiring his own clan, which includes actors Charlie
Sheen and Emilio Estevez?
   ``In fact, Charlie was supposed to play a younger version of me
in `Da,''' said Sheen. ``But our production was delayed, and
Charlie had to take another project. Then we tried Emilio 10 days
before shooting in Dublin, but it was too short a time and he
couldn't make it. So we went with a young Irish actor and made a
discovery with Karl Hayden.
   ``I'm getting ready to direct my first film, and Charlie is the
star. And I know very well that the major reason I'm allowed to
direct it is because of Charlie. The three of us, as well as my
son, Ramon, and daughter, Renee, have worked together on a lot of
projects, and I'm sure we'll do more down the road.''
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv for Weekend Editions, June 1-3 and</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0238 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 2147EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>a e BC-WKD--Valente Adv01-03   06-20 0924</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-WKD--Valente, Adv 01-03,0966</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$Adv01</NOTE>
<NOTE>$Adv02</NOTE>
<NOTE>$Adv03</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release Weekend Editions, July 1-3 and Thereafter</NOTE>
<HEAD>AP WEEKEND ENTERTAINMENT AND ARTS</HEAD>
<HEAD>The Artists: Benita Valente Wants Documentation</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By MARY CAMPBELL</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Lyric soprano Benita Valente gets the kind of
reviews for ravishing tone and precise yet effortless delivery that
superstars usually receive.
   But her name is not a household word. Still, she's philosophical
about it.
   ``I've had a wonderful life and most wonderful career,'' she
said. ``I've done most of the things I want to do, worked with
wonderful people mostly, done good repertory and made good music.
That's all so satisfying.
   ``I've been able to live a life, got married, had my child. My
career would never have been as good if I hadn't gotten married. I
think one needs to live a full life.''
   She was in Paris in June to sing in Brahms' ``Requiem'' with the
Orchestra of Paris. Since 1984, she has been been making recordings
``fast and furious'' _ lieder, Christmas music with the
Philadelphia Singers, Beethoven's ``Ninth Symphony'' with the
Atlanta Symphony, Haydn's ``Seven Last Words of Christ'' with the
Juilliard String Quartet.
   She also had one big, splashy triumph at the Metropolitan Opera
in 1983 in Handel's ``Rinaldo.'' It was a decade after she had made
her Met debut.
   ``Most of the things I've been involved in, I've had a really
good time,'' she said in an interview. ``I like to work with good
people. I like to be creative and work off other people. Doing
opera is my favorite thing because I have a lot of company.
   ``I love the recital repertory. It's the most lonely of the work
I do. On last fall's recital tour I took my son, Peter, with me; he
took a semester off from Marlboro College in Vermont. We had such a
ball.''
   Miss Valente, who a native of Delano, Calif., was shy as a child.
   ``I can remember dressing up the cats in dolls' clothes,'' she
said. ``I much preferred to play with animals. I decided to be a
singer when I was about 3. We had a huge radio. I'd switch the
dials. I figured out Saturday afternoon was the Met broadcast. I
was fascinated by that kind of sound and I could imitate it. My
father had Caruso records. I knew the tenor arias when I got to the
Curtis Institute of Music. Then I had to learn my own repertory.
   ``Music drew me out of myself,'' she said. ``I couldn't sing in
front of my family. I could sing in the next room. I found my
outlet was being expressive on the stage.''
   Her high school music teacher, Chester Hayden, taught her stage
deportment, and how to dress and groom herself. He sent her to
audition for coaching by Lotte Lehmann and for Curtis.
   ``Curtis had seven openings and I got in. The only advice he
gave me I didn't take was to marry for money,'' she said. ``I've
got a bassoonist husband who thinks he's a manager.''
   Miss Valente met her husband, Anthony Checchia, at Curtis.
They've been married for 28 years.
   ``Tony was contracting for orchestras. All my instrumentalist
friends knew him. A cellist had been saying for months we should
meet. I was always very shy about matchmaking. I would have nothing
to do with it. We met by chance. It crossed my mind, `Wouldn't it
be strange if I marry this man.' I never thought that about another
person.
   ``He's first generation Italian. I'm first generation Italian
(father) and Swiss (mother). So many of my family look Spanish. I
always have the feeling somebody wandered over from Spain.''
   ``Rinaldo'' at the Metropolitan Opera was a gift from the
Canadian government for the Bicentennial. The production was put
together and performed first in Ottawa.
   ``Marilyn Horne went to bat for (bass) Sam Ramey and me,
although I had been singing at the Met already,'' Miss Valente said.
   ``We sold out every night and people were clamoring to get in.
The Met never repeated it. We always had the feeling they felt like
`Rinaldo' was pushed down their throats. They acted like we didn't
exist, Marilyn included.''
   The best of the ecstatic reviews were for Ramey and Miss
Valente. Did it make a difference in her career? ``It wasn't a
stepping-stone to getting any further at the Met. It could have
been a detriment. I've been back to do `Idomeneo.'
   ``I'm virtually unknown in Italy; I spent 25 years becoming an
American singer,'' she said. ``The Met `Rinaldo' did lead to
singing in `Rinaldo' in a tour of northern houses in Italy. I sang
in Handel's `Samson' in Florence, and conductor Riccardo Muti's
wife heard me and told him how good I was. I work with him now and
he always says his wife heard me first.
   ``I always do a lot of solo recitals, orchestra dates and
chamber music. I sang at a tribute to Lotte Lehmann at the Y in New
York in February. I usually sing with the Handel Society in
Washington. I sang in Handel's `Ariodante' with Tatiana Troyanos
last summer at the Santa Fe Opera. This summer, Tatiana and I are
going to start doing some duo concerts.''
   As for recordings, she says, ``If you're getting singing jobs,
you think they'll come. But you have to set the time aside for
them, deliberately.
   ``I never took the time before. Now I feel that I should be
documented.''
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv for Weekend Editions, July 1-3</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0239 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 2148EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>a e BC-WKD--Scorpions Adv01-03   06-20 0721</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-WKD--Scorpions, Adv 01-03,0743</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$Adv01</NOTE>
<NOTE>$Adv02</NOTE>
<NOTE>$Adv03</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release Weekend Editions, July 1-3 and Thereafter</NOTE>
<HEAD>AP WEEKEND ENTERTAINMENT AND ARTS</HEAD>
<HEAD>Music Makers: Even the Red Army Likes Heavy Metal</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By STEVEN WINE</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>MIAMI (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The Soviet Army's defenses crumbled in the face of
an onslaught of heavy metal music by the West German band Scorpions.
   Not only did security forces relax restrictions so fans could
stand in front of the stage, but the Red Army joined in the
applause at the Leningrad concerts, billed as the first by a major
hard rock band in the Soviet Union.
   ``Every face was saying, `Oh, it's so great,''' lead singer
Klaus Meine said. ``Even the soldiers _ they threw their caps onto
the stage.''
   Meine, who was recently in Miami with the rest of the Scorpions
for a concert to launch their U.S. tour, smiled as he recalled the
band's 10 shows in Leningrad in late April. He said Soviet leader
Mikhail Gorbachev's new policies of ``glasnost'' that permit a more
open society made the shows possible.
   ``Musicians there told us this wouldn't have happened one year
ago,'' Meine said. ``But now you have the feeling that you can talk
to everybody about everything.''
   The concerts at the Lenin Sports Concert Complex confirmed the
worldwide popularity of the Scorpions, who have played in such
distant locales as Brazil and Thailand. Every show drew a sell-out
crowd of 15,000.
   ``We thought they were crazy to hold 10 shows in one place,''
bassist Francis Buchholz said. ``I thought by the last show we
would have three people. But people flew in from everywhere, from
Siberia to Moscow.''
   Pop music artists such as Billy Joel have performed in the
Soviet Union, but until recently heavy metal was an underground
genre.
   ``We went into a record store and tried to get some rock music,
and they didn't know what it was,'' Buchholz said.
   He said the Scorpions, whose five members grew up within 100
miles of the Berlin Wall, initially had Soviet authorities nervous.
But the well-mannered band, which relies on catchy melodies rather
than bluster to sell records, wasn't interested in inciting a
rebellion.
   ``Our music is not that aggressive,'' Buchholz said. ``Our
audience doesn't carry chains and knives and stab each other. The
audience is like the music we have _ it's positive.
   ``Drugs are out anyway now. Sex is questionable. So we try to
put some messages into our music.''
   For the Leningrad concerts, Meine and guitarist Rudolf Schenker
composed a new song called ``Living for Tomorrow,'' which is about
taking a chance to improve things. Meine, who sings in English,
introduced the tune at each show by reading the lyrics in Russian:
   ``Evil power won't kill the human race;
   ``If we give life a human face.''
   Buchholz said: ``The audience loved it.''
   The Scorpions, whose new album, ``Savage Amusement,'' is in the
Top 10 in the United States, are now part of the five-band, 25-city
Monsters of Rock tour headlined by Van Halen. The bands performed
at the Orange Bowl on June 4.
   ``We have no problem playing under Van Halen. We respect each
other. It's a great band,'' Meine said. ``At the end of the day we
blow each other off the stage with a smile. ... It's a great way to
come back to America.''
   The group's last studio LP, ``Love at First Sting,'' sold more
than 4 million copies worldwide. The 1985 double LP, ``Worldwide
Live,'' was also a big seller. The Scorpions have had one
double-platinum, two platinum and two gold albums in the United
States, and no other continental European band has approached that
level of sales. Albums are deemed gold when they've sold 500,000
copies, including cassettes and compact discs. Platinum means 1
million copies have been sold.
   Composers Meine and Schenker met in Hanover, Germany, while
practicing with separate bands, and formed the Scorpions in 1972.
When they first appeared in a Hanover band contest, they were
disqualified for being too loud.
   Buchholz joined in 1973, drummer Herman Rarebell in 1977 and
guitarist Matthias Jabs in 1979.
   The theme of physical sexuality has dominated the Scorpions'
album titles and cover art. Their dense sound is built around
Meine's soaring voice and Schenker's piercing guitar lines.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv for Weekend Editions, June 1-3</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0240 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 2151EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>a e BC-WKD--CivilRightsSlayings Adv01-03   06-20 0756</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-WKD--Civil Rights Slayings, Adv 01-03,0775</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$Adv01</NOTE>
<NOTE>$Adv02</NOTE>
<NOTE>$Adv03</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release Weekend Editions, July 1-3 and Thereafter</NOTE>
<HEAD>AP WEEKEND ENTERTAINMENT AND ARTS</HEAD>
<HEAD>Books and Authors: Schwerner, Goodman and Chaney Remembered</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By LARRY McSHANE</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Their names were Michael Schwerner, Andrew
Goodman and James Chaney.
   They died at the hands of the Ku Klux Klan in a rural section of
Mississippi 24 years ago, their bodies bulldozed beneath a dam.
   The names may no longer bring instant recognition or raise angry
hackles. But the deaths of Schwerner, Goodman and Chaney _ two
whites from New York and a black from Meridian, Miss. _ affect
American policies today, the authors of a new book on the civil
rights movement say.
   ``This was a slaying with profound political implications. This
wasn't a psychopath running amok, although several psychopaths were
involved,'' said Seth Cagin, co-author of ``We Are Not Afraid''
(The MacMillan Co., $22.50), a history of the civil rights movement
which hinges on the Neshoba County slayings.
   ``We were interested in this because it changed America,'' Cagin
continued. ``You could draw a line _ and I don't think you would be
too far off _ from the early civil rights movement through the
killings of Schwerner, Goodman and Chaney through voting rights for
blacks through Martin Luther King to the campaign of Jesse Jackson
today.''
   The book is the result of 3{ years of interviews, Freedom of
Information requests and vast research into the Mississippi Summer
Project, which sent more than 1,000 northern whites into the South
to fight for civil rights.
   ``We wanted to do a story about young people. And the last time
young Americans were willing to risk their lives for something they
believed in was the civil rights movement,'' said Cagin. ``It's
difficult to think of any cause today that people would risk their
lives for.''
   Or give their lives for.
   The three men were shot to death on June 21, 1964; their bodies
were found 44 days later following an intense federal probe which
drew national attention to the civil rights battle.
   When Schwerner and Goodman left New York for Mississippi, they
were well aware of such risks _ another factor which made the story
intriguing to Cagin and co-author Philip Dray, who were barely in
their teens at the time.
   ``That idea _ what made them do it _ is really the germ of our
book,'' said Cagin. ``It was incredible to us. What would make
people travel down there, knowing what was going to happen? I mean,
if we had the opportunity, would we get on a Greyhound bus and go
down to get our heads busted?''
   In the course of their research, Cagin and Dray encountered many
veterans of the civil rights battles, as well as the families of
all three victims.
   ``A lot of the movement veterans are like war veterans. There's
a certain patina about them _ some are chain smokers, some are
heavy drinkers _ that makes them stand out,'' Dray said.
   ``Some of them suffer like war veterans,'' agreed Cagin. ``Like
Vietnam veterans, no one remembers what they did. Their sacrifices
are unrecognized, and they feel unfulfilled, their work unfinished
... But the people who think they failed really succeeded.''
   The families carried the scars as well, they said.
   ``In all three families, it was like this had occurred last
week. The pain was very fresh,'' Cagin said.
   When he met with John Chaney's mother, Dray learned first-hand
how fresh the pain remains.
   ``I was interviewing Mrs. Chaney, and she started saying she
didn't know if that was her son, she wasn't sure because she had
never seen him after (the bodies were found),'' Dray recalled.
``She broke down crying ... I had always accepted his death as
historical fact, and here she was saying maybe he isn't dead.''
   While the book _ which was edited by Edward T. Chase, father of
comedian Chevy Chase _ details the civil rights movement from its
earliest days through 1964, it does not pretend to be a balanced
account of the time, the authors say.
   None of those involved in the slayings were interviewed; none of
them was ever tried or convicted of murder in the case, though
seven were convicted on federal civil rights charges.
   ``We don't mind being one-sided in this case. What's the other
side?'' asked Cagin. ``That it's all right to go around killing
blacks? It's OK to murder civil rights workers?''
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv for Weekend Editions, June 1-3</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0241 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 2152EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>a e BC-WKD--Dean Adv01-03   06-20 0800</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-WKD--Dean, Adv 01-03,0828</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$Adv01</NOTE>
<HEAD>Adv02</HEAD>
<HEAD>Adv03</HEAD>
<NOTE>For Release Weekend Editions, July 1-3 and Thereafter</NOTE>
<HEAD>AP WEEKEND ENTERTAINMENT AND ARTS</HEAD>
<HEAD>Nashville Sound: He Popularized ``Cotton-Eyed Joe''</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By DAVID SEDENO</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>SAN ANTONIO, Texas (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Al Dean, who made ``Cotton-Eyed Joe''
one of the most popular country tunes ever, looks like a character
out of the ``Cowpokes'' comic strip, and is happiest mending ences
and corralling cattle.
   But though Dean would rather be out on the range, his music
always brings him to the bandstand one more time.
   The 57-year-old musician has gained regional popularity, but has
not fared as well financially as some of the other country
entertainers, including superstar George Strait, who once requested
to sing with Dean's band but was rejected.
   Dean's band still plays the song that continues to bring in the
bucks, but not much publicity.
   ``To this day, we play the `Cotton-Eyed Joe' twice a night and
sometimes three times a night,'' he said. ``If you're a
country-western band, and if you come to Texas, you'd better know
how to play the `Cotton-Eyed Joe.'
   ``There are several versions of the `Cotton-Eyed Joe,' but ours
is a magic mix and I don't think it can be duplicated.''
   ``Cotton-Eyed Joe,'' a mixture of fiddle, guitar and drum
rhythm, has been around as long as people can remember.
   It has been played in jukeboxes at roadside cafes and in
honky-tonks from Texas to Montana. It gained even more popularity
after it was featured in the movie ``Urban Cowboy.''
   The song is closely associated with a dance in which several
two-steppers, with their arms around each other's waists and
shoulders, move counter clockwise, taking several steps forward and
a few backward as they kick up their heels.
   The rhythm intensifies and the pros are quickly separated from
the amateurs.
   The song is known throughout the country, and is synonymous with
Texas, but Dean admits few people know the artist's name.
   ``There were times when people would try to impersonate me to
make some money,'' he said. ``People didn't know my face, so it was
hard to convince them that I was the real Al Dean.''
   The song, Dean says, gained popularity in Mexico because it was
released as a single with one of his other recordings, ``Jalisco.''
   Last year, the Texas Juke Box Dealers presented Dean with its
first classic music award for the most-played jukebox record in
Texas.
   Bud Daily, secretary-treasurer of the Daily Inc. record
distributing company, has distributed Dean's ``Cotton-Eyed Joe''
recording for almost a decade and is surprised by its continued
success.
   ``There must be several hundred versions of `Cotton-Eyed Joe'
that have been recorded down through the years, but Al Dean's has
just outlasted them,'' Daily said.
   ``I don't know what it is, but there is a certain chemistry that
comes together _ the beat, the sincerity with which the music is
played, the sincerity with which a singer projects and the
sincerity that comes together that makes the record.
   ``Al's got the perfect beat for the dance. The dancers like it
and it just works.''
   Dean's road to success started in rattlesnake-infested Freer,
Texas, a community midway between Corpus Christi and Laredo.
   In 1952, at age 22, he became the lead singer of the Texas
Teen-agers, a group of mostly high school kids who played in south
Texas. When they split up about two years later, Dean recorded a
few songs on his own in San Antonio, but with little success.
   Then, in 1967, he scraped up several thousand dollars, traveled
to Nashville and recorded his first album, ``Texas to Nashville,''
which had ``Cotton-Eyed Joe'' on it.
   The album was on Dean's independent ``KIK-R'' label, and he had
to work to get disc jockeys to play it.
   He was rejected, but later released ``Cotton-Eyed Joe'' and
``Jalisco'' as a single. Soon after, a San Antonio radio station
began playing the country tune, and requests came in for more
records.
   Dean recalls a certain day on the road with his band.
   ``I remember we were at the Dilley rodeo one day and some kid
comes up to the bandstand and says that he would like to sing a
song with us,'' Dean recalled. ``I told him flat out, `No. We don't
let people from the floor sing with the group.' It turned out to be
a young George Strait.''
   Dean said he still doesn't regret that decision, even though
Strait has gone on to garner numerous country music awards.
   Dean likes his music, but admits he would be fine without it.
   ``I'm just a cowboy at heart,'' he says. ``Give me a pair of
posthole diggers, some barb wire, a poor old horse and an old cow
to look after and I'm happy.''
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv for Weekend Editions, July 1-3</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0242 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1300EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>a a BC-EXP--Explorations-Summary Adv23   06-20 1022</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-EXP--Explorations-Summary, Adv 23,1049</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$Adv23</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release Thursday, June 23, and Thereafter</NOTE>
<NOTE>Eds: This is the Explorations package for June 23 in summary form.</NOTE>
<HEAD>High Depression Rates Among Baby Boomers Pose Mystery</HEAD>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The ``baby boom'' generation, born into relative
affluence, peace and health, is unhappy. Not just a little blue,
but depressed.
   Studies indicate that clinical depression _ lasting at least two
weeks with appetite or sleep disturbance, feelings of worthlessness
or guilt, or thoughts of death _ is hitting earlier in baby boomers
than the preceding generation.
   Female baby boomers, for example, have a 65 percent greater
chance than normal of being depressed some time in their lives. And
the suicide rate among 15- to 24-year-olds in 1980 was nearly three
times that of the group in 1950.
   ``Depression has changed from a disease of people in their 40s,
50s and older, to a disease of people in their 20s and 30s,'' said
Robert Hirschfeld of the National Institute of Mental Health.
   Nobody really knows why, but Hirschfeld and psychiatry professor
Gerald Klerman, of New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center,
suspect major changes in the social environment that occurred since
World War II, and the stress of high expectations clashing with
economic reality.
   Baby boomers are not formally defined, but Klerman applies the
term to the 76.2 million babies born from 1947 to 1965, now ranging
from about 23 to 41 years old. They make up about a third of the
United States population.
   Births during the 16-year boom were 50 percent higher than the
previous 16 years and 16 percent above the following 16 years.
   Klerman believes the size of the generation contributed to
higher depression rates, citing a theory by economist Richard
Easterlin of the University of Southern California, who says that
because of supply and demand, a large age group will face lower
wages, higher unemployment and less upward mobility on the job than
smaller age groups.
   Baby-boomers entered that situation with high material
expectations because they grew up in relatively prosperous times.
Despite the economic burden of the big generation, Easterlin said,
they still aspire to material wealth by staying single, or forming
families with working mothers and few if any children.
   ``And the result is a lot of psychological stress,'' Easterlin
said.
   But sociologist Allan Horwitz of Rutgers University said
baby-boomers grew up in ``a very psychological climate, where they
are more attuned to looking within themselves,'' and may be more
prone to react to difficulties by become depressed. Those born
earlier may have just gotten physically sick.
</TEXT>
<HEAD>Association Helps Sufferers of Mysterious Illness</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   TIGARD, Ore. _ The mysterious ailment has been dubbed
``Hollywood Blahs'' and ``Yuppie Disease,'' but to the thousands of
people debilitated by its long list of symptoms, chronic fatigue
syndrome is no joking matter.
   ``Would you make fun of M.S., lupus or other disorders with
similar hardships for patients?'' wrote Gidget Faubion-Jones,
president of the Chronic Fatigue Syndrome Society, in a letter
complaining about a newspaper cartoon that poked fun at sufferers
and implied the ailment is psychosomatic.
   ``Many of these people are wheelchair bound, have lost jobs,
savings, relationships, houses and a normal lifestyle,'' she wrote.
   Until recently, many doctors believed the ailment was fictional.
In a March report in the Annals of Internal Medicine, 16
researchers gave it credibility by naming and defining it. The
definition largely involves ruling out other illnesses, though, and
little is known about the syndrome.
   Its symptoms can include exhaustion, disorientation, sore
throat, depression, fever, swollen lymph nodes, headaches and
insomnia.
   The society, which now has 12,000 members, was founded in this
Portland suburb three years ago as a support group for local
sufferers of the illness, then called chronic Epstein-Barr virus
syndrome. It now is an international clearinghouse of information,
sends out a newsletter, maintains what it says is the largest
library of information about the illness, organizes conferences and
distributes information to the public.
   ``We're recognizing it (chronic fatigue syndrome) as a clinical
entity to be investigated and looked at,'' says Dr. John Stewart of
the CDC. The Epstein-Barr virus initially was thought to cause it,
but investigation dispelled that theory. The CDC's next step is a
30-person study in the Atlanta area.
</TEXT>
<HEAD>Hydrogen Coolant Offered As Antidote To Ozone-Depleting Freon</HEAD>
<DATELINE>PITTSBURGH (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Simple hydrogen could replace ozone-busting
refrigerants in vehicle air conditioners, one of the leading
sources of chlorofluorocarbons, chemicals damaging Earth's
protective radiation shield, a researcher says.
   But the refrigerant industry believes it will find an antidote
to the ozone problem without forcing society to adopt radically
different technology like that being developed by Edward Wallace of
Carnegie Mellon University.
   ``We're hearing a lot about new inventions coming down the
pike,'' says Kevin Fay of the Alliance for Responsible CFC Policy.
``We're not saying there aren't technological solutions out there
to be found. But the extent to which they're commercially viable
and can be manufactured in millions of units is another question.''
   The estimated 146,000 metric tons of U.S.-produced R-12, the
type of refrigerant used in vehicle air conditioners, accounted for
45 percent of the nation's output of CFCs, Fay says. ``It's the
single largest source of emission of R-12 in the country today.''
   Wallace's air conditioner cools as hydrogen passes between two
beds of material that absorb it at different rates. One bed's
attraction to hydrogen is strong enough to pull it from the other
bed, duplicating the chilling effect of a liquid evaporating. The
stronger bed when heated gives up the hydrogen to the weaker bed,
and the cycle is repeated as needed.
   Hydrogen's flammability is no problem, Wallace says, because
only 2 percent of the hydrogen in his design is ever in its gaseous
state. The rest is locked in chemical compounds in the beds, which
are alloys of iron, nickel and rare earth elements including
lanthanum.
   Similar devices are under development in Israel, Scandanavia and
Europe, where the most rudimentary designs are about as efficient
as conventional air conditioners. Wallace says he won't know how
efficient his is until the components are assembled and tested.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv for June 23</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0243 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1307EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>a a BC-EXP--Briefs Adv23   06-20 0789</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-EXP--Briefs, Adv 23,0810</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$Adv23</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release Thursday, June 23, and Thereafter</NOTE>
<HEAD>Chicago Scientists' Instruments to Hitch Ride on Soviet Mars
Flight</HEAD>
<DATELINE>CHICAGO (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   When two Soviet spacecraft take off for Mars and
one of its moons in a couple weeks, soil analyzers designed by two
Chicago scientists will be aboard, even though the United States
isn't taking part in the project.
   The devices, in 6-inch, gold-plated boxes, are similar to those
Anthony L. Turkevich and Thanasis Economou developed in the 1960s
for three U.S. Surveyor missions that did the first chemical
analysis of the lunar surface.
   The Soviet probes will take off July 7 and July 12 for the
seven-month, 110-million-mile trip to Mars and Phobos. One will
orbit the planet; the other will drop a lander to analyze for the
first time the small, asteroid-like moon.
   Astronomers speculate Phobos may have been an asteroid captured
by Mars' gravity. The analyzer beams sub-atomic alpha particles
into the soil, and the rate and speed at which they bounce off
nuclei of atoms in the soil identifies its elements. High carbon
levels would indicate Phobos probably is a captured asteroid
containing traces of material left largely undisturbed since the
beginning of the solar system, Turkevich said.
   Soviet scientists asked Turkevich two years ago to build an
analyzer, but he couldn't get U.S. funding because of strained
superpower relations. Instead, he and Economou, a physicist, worked
with West Germans.
   The craft will include instruments from eight countries and the
European Space Agency. The Phobos probe will carry a plaque
commemorating the Martian moon's discovery in 1877 by American
astronomer Asaph Hall.
</TEXT>
<HEAD>High Cholesterol Among Children Often Undetected</HEAD>
<DATELINE>DANVILLE, Pa. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   High cholesterol often goes undetected in
children because doctors don't check family histories for early
heart attacks, and some pediatric cardiologists recommend
cholesterol tests for all 5-year-olds.
   ``We're really beginning to appreciate now this an inheritable
thing that gets passed on through the family,'' according to
Geisinger Medical Center head of pediatric cardiology Dr. John G.
Spangler. He said that doctors previoulsy believed diet and
lifestyle were the most important factors.
   Between 1 percent and 2 percent of all children have inherited
high cholesterol, said Dr. Jean A. Cortner, director of the
Lipid-Heart Research Center at Children's Hospital of Philadelphia.
Normal cholesterol for children measures about 150 miligrams per
100 cubic centimeters of blood. Children with inherited cholesterol
problems can have levels as high as 1,000, Spangler said.
   Cholesterol sticks to the lining of arteries, making it more
difficult for blood to flow to the heart. High cholesterol can
cause heart attacks in men as young as their 20s and women as young
as their 30s.
   Cholesterol levels often are associated with weight because one
source is fatty foods, but children with inherited high cholesterol
can be thin and appear healthy, Spangler said. In most cases, high
cholesterol can be controlled with diet, exercise and medication,
he said.
</TEXT>
<HEAD>Skeleton Of Extinct Stag Moose Found In Illinois Cornfield</HEAD>
<DATELINE>TONICA, Ill. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A museum crew looking for fossils along a
highway project found the bones of a stag moose that roamed the
United States 10,000 years ago and the logs of spruce trees that no
longer grow in the area.
   Only two other skeletons of the stag moose _ sort of a cross
between a moose and an elk that inhabited boggy areas until the
glaciers receded _ said Russell Graham, head of the Illinois State
Museum geology department. The other two skeletons, in New Jersey,
are from adults; the latest find is younger.
   ``This one will compare with the other two, which are adults,
and provide us with new information about how these animals
lived,'' Graham said. The logs will give information about the
environment in which the stag moose lived.
</TEXT>
<HEAD>Doctors Urge Parents To Keep Ipecac As Poison Remedy</HEAD>
<DATELINE>CHICAGO (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Syrup of ipecac can be used to induce vomiting in
small children who swallow some poisons, but two physicians found
that only a quarter of parents surveyed keep it and less than 10
percent of doctors dispense it.
   Those findings were reported in the June edition of the American
Journal of Diseases of Children by Dr. Michael H. Malloy and Dr.
George C. Rhoads of the National Institute of Child Health and
Human Development in Bethesda, Md.
   Pediatricians could increase home supplies by regularly
dispensing ipecac, wrote Malloy and Rhoads, but only 7 percent of
doctors they interviewed in the Washington, D.C., area did so.
   Dr. H. Juhling McClung of Children's Hospital in Columbus, Ohio,
warns in another article in the same AMA publication that easy
availability of ipecac has potential for child abuse and
self-induced vomiting.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv for June 23</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0244 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 2154EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>a a BC-EXP--ChronicFatigue Adv23 1stLd-Writethrthem90daysnotice.Butsinceitwasnotfollowedbyawritteneviction
06-20 0658</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-EXP--Chronic Fatigue, Adv 23, 1st Ld-Writethru, b0940,0669</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>$Adv23</NOTE>
<NOTE>For Release Thursday, June 23, and Thereafter</NOTE>
<NOTE>Eds: Subs 13th graf, ``We're recognizing...,'' to give full name
of CDC; restores logo.</NOTE>
<HEAD>Association Helps Sufferers of Mysterious Illness</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By RICHARD GREEN</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>TIGARD, Ore. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The mysterious ailment has been dubbed
``Hollywood Blahs'' and ``Yuppie Disease,'' but to the thousands of
people debilitated by its long list of symptoms, chronic fatigue
syndrome is no joking matter.
   ``Would you make fun of M.S., lupus or other disorders with
similar hardships for patients?'' wrote Gidget Faubion-Jones,
president of the Chronic Fatigue Syndrome Society, in a letter
complaining about a newspaper cartoon that poked fun at sufferers
and implied the ailment is psychosomatic.
   ``Many of these people are wheelchair-bound, have lost jobs,
savings, relationships, houses and a normal lifestyle,'' she wrote.
   Until recently, many doctors believed the ailment was fictional.
In a March report in the Annals of Internal Medicine, 16
researchers gave it credibility by naming and defining it. The
definition largely involves ruling out other illnesses, though, and
little is known about the syndrome.
   Faubion-Jones' weight dropped to 85 pounds when she first was
struck in 1985. ``I looked like death warmed over. I would have
died if not for a housekeeper who fed and clothed me.''
   While she has overcome the worst symptoms, she said she still
must stay in bed several days a month and finds small tasks
difficult. ``It takes me about four times as long to put on makeup
and to put curlers in my hair. I tend to wear clothes like jump
suits that are easy to put on and take off.''
   Symptoms can include exhaustion, disorientation, sore throat,
depression, fever, swollen lymph nodes, headaches and insomnia.
   Lynn Finch, who helped form the society, uses a wheelchair
because walking is so tiring, and keeps her curtains drawn because
direct sunlight bothers her. When she first became ill in 1979, she
tried to continue her job as a hospital nursing supervisor and her
busy home life as a mother of four children.
   ``When I first got the disease I was devastated,'' Finch said.
``I could tell it was progressing. I stopped going to church,
cooking, driving.
   ``I would lie down on the floor at work during coffee breaks and
I would rest during my lunch break. I'd collapse in a chair when I
got home from work. Finally I had to quit my job. ... My kids were
in high school and they wanted Dad and Mom to go to different
events.
   ``To just be stopped in your tracks is hard to take.''
   The society, which now has 12,000 members, was founded in this
Portland suburb three years ago as a support group for local
sufferers of the illness, then called chronic Epstein-Barr virus
syndrome. The group has evolved into an international clearinghouse
of information about the disorder. It sends out a newsletter,
maintains what it says is the largest library of information about
the illness, organizes conferences and distributes information to
the public.
   ``We're recognizing it as a clinical entity to be investigated
and looked at,'' says Dr. John Stewart of the federal Centers for
Disease Control. The Epstein-Barr virus initially was thought to
cause it, but subsequent laboratory investigation dispelled that
theory. The CDC's next step is a 30-person study in the Atlanta
area.
   ``We still don't know what causes it but at least we have a
definition of what it is,'' said Faubion-Jones. ``Science and
technology is finally starting to catch up with this disorder.''
   Meanwhile, she continues to battle those who scoff. Finch,
society vice president Claudia Carver and Faubion-Jones are
exasperated by people who continue to think those suffering the
syndrome are malingerers.
   ``You just suddenly can't do anything,'' Finch says. ``The
American ethic is that if you just try harder, you can overcome
something like this, but that's just not the case.''
</TEXT>
<NOTE>End Adv for June 23</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0245 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0734EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r f PM-BusinessHighlights 2Takes   06-20 0506</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Business Highlights, 2 Takes,0528</2ND_LINE>
<DATELINE>TULSA, Okla. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Texaco Inc. says it won its proxy fight with
Carl C. Icahn, but the financier argued the vote by the oil giant's
211,000 shareholders was too close to call.
   The actual outcome of the balloting for five seats on the board
of directors is not expected to be known for a few weeks because it
will take that long to sort out and count the votes representing
243 million shares.
   Wall Street seemed to express skepticism about Icahn's chances
of getting himself and four allies elected, pushing down Texaco's
stock $1.50 a share to $48 on Friday.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The United States would be happy to consider
negotiating a free-trade agreement with Japan along the lines of
the treaty reached with Canada, Treasury Secretary James A. Baker
III says.
   While there are no current discussions about such a treaty, it
would fit into this country's overall strategy to break down trade
barriers wherever they exist, he said Friday.
   Meanwhile, the government's top trade negotiator left Friday for
talks with Japanese officials, saying agreement appeared near on
resolving a dispute over Japan's beef import restrictions.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Apartment and house building plunged 12.2
percent in May as single-family home construction slumped to the
lowest level in more than three years, the government says.
   Economists were surprised by the steepness of the nose dive
reported Friday. They blamed rising interest rates and high home
prices, particularly in the Northeast where construction starts
fell 22.3 percent.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Drought that is curling corn leaves and
darkening wheat fields across the nation's heartland calls for a
blueprint for aiding farmers and guarding against stepped-up food
prices, lawmakers say.
   ``We have to have a battle plan before too long,'' Sen. David
Pryor, D-Ark., said as a congressional task force met Friday with
Agriculture Secretary Richard E. Lyng to discuss ways to respond to
the drought.
   The task force was formed to monitor the drought and its effect
on crops and to recommend congressional action if that should prove
necessary.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The Supreme Court has made it more difficult
for communities to regulate the placement of newspaper boxes on
public sidewalks.
   By a 4-3 vote Friday, the court said placement of the boxes,
called newsracks, is a form of expression in a public forum
protected by the Constitution's First Amendment.
   The decision struck down as unconstitutional a Lakewood, Ohio,
ordinance because it gave the suburban city's mayor too much
discretion in deciding which newsracks would be allowed.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>BILLERICA, Mass. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The Delaware & Hudson Railway Co. will
seek protection under of Chapter 11 of the bankruptcy laws today,
the railway's parent company says.
   Guilford Transportation Industries said Friday that a recent
federal arbitrator's ruling and ``other financial conditions''
forced the move.
   Under a decision Wednesday by arbitrator Richard Kasher,
Delaware & Hudson could not be leased to the Springfield Terminal
Railway Co. to generate income, Guilford said in a statement.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>MORE</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0246 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0736EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r f PM-BusinessHighlights 1stAdd   06-20 0525</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Business Highlights, 1st Add,0548</2ND_LINE>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The ``Superfund'' toxic waste dump cleanup
program is ineffective, inefficient and still choosing cleanup
methods that may have to be redone later at great expense, a
congressional study says.
   ``Technical evidence confirms that all too frequently, Superfund
is not working environmentally the way the law directs it to,''
said the report issued Friday by the Office of Technology
Assessment.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>PHILADELPHIA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Pennwalt Corp. says it is exploring the sale
of its pharmaceuticals and equipment divisions and refused comment
on an investment partnership's takeover offer.
   Centaur Partners, which holds 6.5 percent of Pennwalt's common
stock, sent a letter to Pennwalt Chairman Edwin Tuttle on Friday
offering to buy the company ``on a friendly basis at a significant
premium to the market price.''
   Centaur demanded a response by Tuesday and told Tuttle, ``If you
refuse to meet with us or to respond to this letter, we must
reserve the right to pursue all options available to us.'' That
would include a hostile tender offer.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The Occupational Safety and Health
Administration has tightened its regulations on concrete and
masonry construction, saying its new standards will save the lives
of 120 workers a year.
   The new regulations, in the making since 1982, require
additional bracing of concrete and masonry walls and more thorough
testing of concrete.
   The changes, announced Friday, were prompted by a 1978 accident
in which 51 construction workers plunged to their deaths when
scaffolding anchored in uncured concrete collapsed on a power plant
cooling tower being built at Willow Island, W.Va.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>PITTSBURGH (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The board of directors of Allegheny
International Inc. has approved a bankruptcy reorganization plan
calling for shareholders to retain 25 percent of the restructured
company's common stock.
   The consumer products company also said Friday it welcomed any
proposals or plans of reorganization from qualified buyers, opening
the door to a Los Angeles investor interested in purchasing the
company.
   The plan provides for all creditors of three of the company's
subsidiaries _ Sunbeam Corp., Almet-Lawnlite Inc. and Chemetron
Corp. _ to be paid in full.
</TEXT>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A bill that may be the first step of a $3
billion project to map the human genetic pattern has celeared the
Senate.
   The legislation, called the Biotechnology Competitiveness Act,
does not authorize the start of any laboratory research, but
experts in the biotechnology field said the bill creates a
framework that would enable the start of a major genetic project in
about two years.
   It passed Friday by a vote of 88 to 1, with Sen. William
Proxmire, D-Wis., casting the single dissenting vote.
 
</TEXT>
<BYLINE>By The Associated Press</BYLINE>
<TEXT>
   The stock market finished mixed Friday amid the heaviest volume
of 1988. The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials rose 9.78 points
to close at 2,104.02 but broader market measures fell.
   Soybean futures prices soared to 11-year highs and corn futures
advanced the daily limit for the fourth consecutive session but
livestock and meat futures were mixed.
   Bond prices fell as much as $12.50 for every $1,000 in face
value.
   The dollar was mixed in foreign exchange trading.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0247 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0742EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r f PM-SatelliteCompetition     06-20 0744</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Satellite Competition,0766</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>U.S. Satellite Aimed At International Telecommunications Market</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By DEBORAH MESCE</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A U.S. company that lofted a satellite into
space last week on the Ariane rocket is promising superior prices
and services in its attempt to unlock the 25-year international
satellite telecommunications monopoly held by the global consortium
Intelsat.
   Pan American Satellite, based in Greenwich, Conn., is aiming its
services at businesses, government agencies and TV broadcasters in
the United States, Canada, the Caribbean, Latin America and Europe
now dominated by Intelsat.
   Pan American believes it not only can lure customers from
Intelsat, but also can expand the telecommunications market and
bring in new customers by driving prices lower industrywide.
   ``Intelsat has already responded. Prices (for international
services) have come down, not only on big routes but also on
services into developing countries,'' said Doug Goldschmidt,
director of data services for Pan American Satellite.
   ``You're also going to start seeing prices (for
telecommunications services) come down within these countries
because the national telephone companies are going to be under
pressure to bring prices down, and a lot of new (data) services are
going to be brought in a lot faster,'' he said in a recent
interview.
   The effects will be greater in Latin America than anywhere else,
Goldschmidt said, because the area now has few data services and
little competition for domestic telecommunications. But the company
also is actively pursuing the high-density traffic in the North
Atlantic, Intelsat's biggest market.
   Since the International Telecommunications Satellite
Organization was founded in 1963, it has been the only satellite
system carrying international telephone and video traffic, and the
only network providing domestic communications in some countries.
It now has 115 member countries.
   A 1984 determination by the Reagan administration extended its
marketplace philosophy to international communications and paved
the way for limited competition for Intelsat from private
international satellite systems.
   Some Intelsat member countries resisted the move to a
competitive system, fearful it would weaken Intelsat irreparably.
Unlike Intelsat, which serves all countries regardless of how poor,
new private systems would be able to enter only the most profitable
markets. This could hurt Intelsat financially and jeopardize its
services to developing countries, many of which depend on the
consortium for domestic communications, some feared.
   But the view of the U.S. government, Intelsat's largest member,
prevailed and the consortium agreed to allow privately-owned
satellite systems to compete on a limited basis. Such systems are
not allowed to connect to public telephone networks, interfere with
Intelsat's transmissions or hurt the consortium financially.
   Pan American Satellite is the first to emerge to take on the
global Intelsat monopoly on these terms, but the company says the
consortium is trying to block its efforts to compete.
   ``We see the markets opening up slowly, but they have made life
harder for us than was necessary,'' Goldschmidt said.
   He said Intelsat recently cut some prices drastically in an
apparent effort to undercut services Pan American Satellite was
marketing in Latin America. And he said the consortium vigorously
is lobbying foreign governments not to deal with the company.
   ``They are using business practices that under most conventional
terms are unethical,'' he said.
   Intelsat denies it is trying to block Pan American Satellite and
says its price decreases are not extraordinary.
   ``Our prices have continued to go down and that's unrelated to
Pan American Satellite. That has been part of a continuous trend
for regular rate decreases,'' said Walda Roseman, senior adviser
for strategic planning at Intelsat.
   She said the consortium had lowered its per-circuit rates 14
times in its quarter-century history. Rates are now 1 percent of t
they were when the consortium began operating, she said.
   ``That has resulted through a deliberate effort to take full
advantage of global economies and technological advances, and both
of those (factors) were involved in the last rate decrease,'' she
said.
   Goldschmidt said Pan American Satellite has been received well
by the private sector and by government agencies, but not by
telephone companies that are owned by most governments that are
Intelsat members.
   Despite U.S. government pressure on foreign governments to allow
Pan American Satellite to provide service, many countries are
resisting.
   Pan American Satellite has signed agreements for television
services in Argentina and Chile, and data services with the
Scandinavian countries, Chile, Ecuador and Venezuela. In Western
Europe, only Great Britain and West Germany have agreed to let the
company set up communications links for customers there.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0248 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0743EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r f BC-Summit-Schedule     06-20 0143</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-Summit-Schedule,0163</2ND_LINE>
<DATELINE>TORONTO (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Here is the schedule for the seven-nation
economic summit, which ends Tuesday.
   All times are Eastern Daylight.
</TEXT>
<HEAD>MONDAY</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   10:20 a.m. - 12 noon: Plenary session.
   12:30 p.m. - 2 p.m: Leaders and foreign ministers hold a joint
lunch.
   2:30 p.m. - 4 p.m.: Plenary session
   6:25 p.m.: Leaders pose for group photo.
   6:35 p.m. - 8 p.m.: Leaders meet in an informal session over
dinner.
</TEXT>
<HEAD>TUESDAY</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   9.30 a.m.- 11.30 a.m: Leaders meet in full session
   1 p.m.: Canada's Governor General Jeanne Sauve hosts a lunch for
all the delegates and their spouses at Art Gallery of Ontario.
   3.30 p.m.: Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney, accompanied
by the other leaders, reads the final communique.
   4.15 p.m.: Each leader holds a news conference.
   7 p.m.: President Reagan addresses a joint meeting of the Empire
Club and Canadian Club.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0249 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0817EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r f BC-Obit-Lazarus     06-20 0144</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-Obit-Lazarus,0149</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Former Federated Chairman Dies</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: also contained in PM-Deaths</NOTE>
<DATELINE>CINCINNATI (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Ralph Lazarus, former chairman and chief
executive officer of Federated Department Stores Inc., died after
suffering from a long illness. He was 74.
   Lazarus, who died Sunday, was the grandson of Fred Lazarus,
founder of the F&R Lazarus Co. chain in Columbus. Federated, which
was purchased earlier this year by the Campeau Corp., had been the
parent company of the Lazarus chain.
   Ralph Lazarus, who was raised in Columbus, worked at Lazarus for
more than 22 years and was a graduate of Dartmouth College in
Hanover, N.H.
   His father, Fred Lazarus Jr., co-founded Federated in 1929. It
grew to a nationwide chain of department stores. Ralph Lazarus was
chairman and chief executive officer of Federated from 1972 until
1982. Before that, he was the company's president for 15 years.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0250 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0824EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u f BC-Britain-Stocks     06-20 0153</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-Britain-Stocks,0160</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>London Shares Slightly Lower At Midday</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: will be led with closing figures</NOTE>
<DATELINE>LONDON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Share prices were marginally lower in thin trading
at midday Monday amid concerns that interest rates were headed
higher.
   But prices got a slight lift following the late-morning release
of data showing that Britain's money supply and bank lending grew
at a slower rate in May than had been expected.
   At 1 p.m. local time, the Financial Times-Stock Exchange
100-share index was down 0.1 points, or 0.01 percent, at 1,850.0,
its best level for the day.
   The index hit a low of 6.9 points down when trading began.
   Volume was light at 155.2 million shares, compared with 289.8
million shares at the same time Friday.
   Dealers said that the money supply data, while better than
expected, did little to change the fundamental view that interest
rates were likely to rise, although perhaps not immediately.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0251 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 0924EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r f PM-LTV-UnionAgreement     06-20 0229</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-LTV-Union Agreement,0239</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>LTV, Workers Reach Contract Settlement</HEAD>
<DATELINE>DALLAS (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   LTV Corp. and the union representing nearly 4,900
aerospace and defense employees have reached a labor contract that
provides modest pay increase and other benefits.
   The new three-year, eight-month labor agreement with the United
Automobile and Aerospace Workers union came on Sunday, two weeks
before the old contract was set to expire on July 2.
   Both sides described the pact as a return to good will between
the union and company.
   ``In this agreement truly both partners won, as did the military
and civilian contractors with whom we do business,'' said Billie
Smith, president of LTV Aircraft Products Group.
   LTV Aircraft Products manufactures aircraft sub-assemblies and
components for military and commercial use and provides extensive
modernization and upgrading of existing military aircraft. It is
one of three divisions of LTV Missiles and Electronics Group, which
also produces electronics, avionics and military vehicles.
   The contract covers 4,894 workers at LTV Aircraft Products and
at the Missiles Division of LTV Missiles and Electronics Group in
Grand Prairie.
   The contract provides general pay increases of 3 percent in the
first and fourth year and one-time performance awards of 3 percent
in the first and fourth years and 5 percent in the second and third
years, the company said.
   The agreement also calls for improvements in employee insurance
and other benefits.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0252 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1015EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r f BC-RigCount     06-20 0223</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-Rig Count,0229</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Rig Count Increases 16 To Total 905</HEAD>
<DATELINE>HOUSTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The number of working domestic oil and gas rigs
increased by 16 rigs to 905, reversing a two-week decline, Baker
Hughes Inc. reported Monday.
   Baker Hughes' rig count, the widely watched industry index of
drilling activity, reflects the number of rigs actively exploring
for oil as of last Friday, not the number of rigs producing oil.
The rig count totaled 800 a year ago. It had decreased by 16 over
the previous two weeks.
   Houston-based Hughes Tool Co., an oil toolmaker company that
merged with Baker International Corp. of Orange, Calif., has kept
track of the number of working rigs since 1940.
   The rig count reached a peak of 4,500 active rigs in December
1981, which was the height of the oil boom. But oil prices plunged
to less than $10 per 42-gallon barrel in the summer of 1986 and the
rig count also declined, dropping to 663 _ the lowest since Hughes
began compiling figures.
   Among major oil producing states, Texas showed the most activity
in the latest count, increasing by 14 rigs. Colorado was up by
three, Wyoming two and Kansas and Oklahoma one each. Louisiana,
meanwhile, was down five, Michigan dropped three, New Mexico two
and California one. North Dakota, Pennsylvania and Ohio reported no
change.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0253 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1019EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r f BC-China-USTrade     06-20 0450</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-China-US Trade,0463</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>China, U.S. Open Biggest-Ever Trade Conference</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By JIM ABRAMS</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>BEIJING (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Americans preached the virtues of private
enterprise while Chinese businessmen hawked their wares in the
corridors of the Great Hall of the People on Monday, opening day of
the largest U.S.-China trade conference ever held.
   Nearly 1,000 Americans, many from small businesses, and an equal
number of Chinese gathered in the main hall of China's political
center for the first session of the four-day U.S.-China Joint
Session on Industry, Trade and Economic Development.
   President Reagan, in a message delivered by Ambassador Winston
Lord, praised China's ``challenging and exciting program of
economic reform and modernization'' and said the size of the
conference attests to ``our shared interest in and commitment to
the U.S.-Chinese commercial relationship.''
   Reagan noted that bilateral trade reached $10.4 billion last
year and was up 19 percent in the first quarter of this year, while
U.S. businessmen had invested $3 billion in China, more than any
other country except Hong Kong.
   The conference is being held as China aggressively seeks more
foreign capital to establish export-oriented industries,
particularly in its coastal areas.
   The Americans, representing some 600 companies, were welcomed to
the Great Hall by a Chinese children's drum-and-cymbal corps.
   On the first and second floors of the main foyer about 100
Chinese corporations set up booths to provide information about
their businesses and make contacts with potential partners.
   Vice Premier Tian Jiyun, in a keynote address, stressed that
China's nine-year policy of market-oriented reforms is ``permanent.
It will never change.'' He noted that China has ``become active in
encouraging foreign participation and joint venture cooperation.''
   Speakers also aired trade disputes between the two countries,
and Edwin Dodd, former chairman of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce,
urged China to follow the example of Asian successes like Singapore
and South Korea in giving freer rein to private enterprise.
   ``The entire world is now watching to see if your great nation
can replicate their experience on an even larger scale,'' Dodd
said. ``Government agencies are by their very nature inefficient,
and in the modern world inefficiency is the greatest sin.''
   Dodd, former head of Owen-Illinois Inc., a major glass
manufacturer based in Toledo, Ohio, urged China to rely more
heavily on private businesses and private initiative. He also said
China needs to provide greater protection for intellectual
property, legislate a copyright law and ensure fair settlement of
contract disputes.
   But the Chinese had their own platform. Vice Minister Li Lanqing
of the Foreign Economic Relations and Trade Ministry complained of
``outdated U.S. legislation,'' quotas and anti-dumping legislation
that he said have stunted the growth of China's imports to the
United States.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0254 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1107EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u f PM-USX     06-20 0212</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-USX,0221</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>USX To Sell Transportation Businesses</HEAD>
<DATELINE>PITTSBURGH (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   USX Corp. said today it plans to sell its
transportation businesses for more than $500 million to a joint
venture it is forming with Blackstone Capital Partners.
   USX and Blackstone have signed a letter of intent, leaving a
definitive agreement to be negotiated and regulatory approval,
financing and USX board approval to be obtained, USX said.
   The Blackstone investment group was formed in 1985 by former
Commerce Secretary Peter G. Peterson and Stephen A. Schwarzman,
former head of mergers and acquisitions at Lehman Brothers Kuhn
Loeb Inc., now part of Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc.
   The sale covers all USX's railroads: the Bessemer and Lake Erie;
Birmingham Southern; Duluth, Missabe and Iron Range; Elgin, Joliet
and Eastern; the Lake terminal, and Union Railroad.
   Warrior & Gulf Navigation Co., Pittsburgh & Conneaut Dock Co.,
and USS Great Lakes Fleet Inc. are also included.
   The subsidiaries employ around 4,000 people who operate about
300 locomotives and 20,000 rail cars over more than 2,000 miles of
track, as well as 14 lake vessels, 305 barges and 27 tugboats.
   The Blackstone investors said they will assume labor contracts,
recognize employees' unions and pay comparable benefits to all
employees. They also anticipate no change in customer relations.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0255 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1122EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u f PM-WallStreet11am     06-20 0310</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Wall Street 11am,0326</2ND_LINE>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Stocks fell this morning in light trading, with
Wall Street brokers blaming the weakness on fears of
drought-spawned inflation and higher interest rates.
   The key Dow Jones industrial index lost 18.14 points by 11 a.m.
EDT to total 2,085.88.
   Among broader market indicators, the New York Stock Exchange
composite index of all listed issues fell 0.98 to 151.86. On the
American Stock Exchange, the market value index fell 0.89 to 304.81.
   Losing issues outnumbered gains by more than 2-to-1 on the NYSE,
with 794 down, 371 up and 495 unchanged. Volume totaled 38.75
million shares after the first 90 minutes of business.
   Anxiety over inflation and rising interest rates appeared to be
key elements in the weakness today, brokers said. Falling prices in
the bond market pushed the yield on the 30-year Treasury bond up to
9.15 percent by late morning, compared with 9.09 percent last
Friday and 8.81 percent last Tuesday.
   Fear of a prolonged drought in the Midwest wrenched up commodity
prices, another important inflation signal that contributed to the
uncertainty on Wall Street, persuading large institutional
investors to refrain from buying.
   ``The institutional business is nonexistent,'' said Philip C.
Puccio, senior vice president and manager of institutional trading
at Dillon Read & Co. in New York.
   Reports that leaders of the seven industrialized democracies
meeting in Toronto would tolerate higher interest rates added to
belief on Wall Street that tighter credit is looming.
   Johnson & Johnson was the Big Board's most active issue, down 1[
to 79~ on volume of more than 1.1 million shares. It was not
immediately clear what accounted for the stock activity.
   On the over-the-counter market, Farmers Group fell 4} to 57\ on
volume of nearly 1.2 million shares. Last Friday B.A.T. Industries
was denied regulatory approval to buy the company, an unexpected
setback.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0256 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1208EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r f PM-Milk-Antitrust 1stLd-Writethru   06-20 0281</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Milk-Antitrust, 1st Ld-Writethru,0287</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Southland To Pay $10 Million In Milk Price-Fixing Case</HEAD>
<NOTE>EDS: ADDS new 3rd graf to UPDATE with comment on criminal charges,
picks up 3rd graf pvs: Southland, which ...</NOTE>
<DATELINE>TALLAHASSEE, Fla. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Southland Corp. has agreed to pay
nearly $10 million to settle charges that a former division
conspired with other producers to fix prices of milk sold to
Florida public schools, Attorney General Bob Butterworth said today.
   Butterworth said past and present officials of Velda Farms Dairy
of Miami, formerly owned by the Dallas-based Southland, have
acknowledged that the firm participated in price fixing.
   Tom Hillstrom, a spokesman for Butterworth, said the settlement
did not address the possibility of criminal charges against Velda
officials. That issue, he said, ``will be dealt with on an
individual basis depending on the amount of cooperation extended to
the state.''
   Southland, which must continue to help Butterworth litigate
cases against six other milk producers as part of the settlement,
sold Velda Dairy in April to Morning Star Inc. of Dallas. Morning
Star is not mentioned in the civil action.
   Butterworth said Southland's top management was unaware of the
bid rigging and he said it was the action of a few Velda Farms
officials.
   ``Southland's executives have expressed their regret that this
activity occurred,'' said Butterworth. ``They have acted very
responsibly since the charges were brought to their attention and
have taken steps to make amends to the victimized school boards.''
   Butterworth filed a federal antitrust lawsuit in February in
Miami against the milk companies, charging them with unlawfully
allocating contracts among themselves over 10 years for supplying
milk to at least 32 of the state's 67 school districts.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0257 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1215EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u f PM-Scotus-Clubs 1stLd-Writethru f0076 06-20 0742</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Scotus-Clubs, 1st Ld-Writethru, f0076,0764</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>High Court Allows New York Ban on Discrimination by Clubs</HEAD>
<NOTE>EDS: DELETES grafs 24-38 to eliminate unrelated cases; Also moved
on general newswires</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By RICHARD CARELLI</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The Supreme Court today let New York City bar
discrimination against women and minorities by private clubs with
more than 400 members, giving cities and states new ammunition in a
growing legal assault on such practices.
   By a unanimous vote, the justices ruled that the New York City
law is constitutional, at least as it is written.
   The law banning discrimination by public accommodations exempts
``distinctly private organizations.'' But it deprives non-religious
groups of that exempt designation if they have more than 400
members, provide regular meal service and regularly get their
members' dues paid by non-members such as the members' employers.
   At least six other major cities _ Buffalo, Chicago, Detroit, Los
Angeles, San Francisco and Washington _ have enacted similar
ordinances recently.
   The New York State Clubs Association, comprised of 125 private
clubs and associations, challenged the New York City law soon after
it was enacted in 1984.
   The city had initiated proceedings against four men-only clubs _
the 10,003-member New York Athletic Club, the 4,329-member
University Club, the 1,900-member Century Association and the
1,600-member Union League Club.
   Lawyers for the clubs association argued that the law wrongly
creates an irrebutable presumption that such organizations are not
truly private if they have more than 400 members and meet the other
criteria.
   The law's attackers said it does not give individual clubs an
opportunity to prove they should not be treated as a public
accommodation.
   Writing for the court today, Justice Byron R. White noted that
any individual club wanting to challenge the New York City law as
applied to it is free to do so.
   But White said the law can be applied in a way that does not
violate the constitutionally protected freedom of association.
   In previous decisions, the Supreme Court has ruled that states
may force the U.S. Jaycees and Rotary International to admit women
as members.
   In ruling unanimously in the Rotary case two years ago, the
justices suggested that numerous other male-only or female-only
private organizations may have to comply with state laws requiring
equal access to public accommodations.
   The challenge of New York City's law was supported in a
``friend-of-the-court'' brief submitted in behalf of, among others,
the Benevolent and Protective Order of Elks, the Loyal Order of
Moose, the Improved Order of Red Men and Kiwanis International.
   Kiwanis International last July voted to end its men-ony
tradition and allow its 8,200 clubs worldwide to admit women.
   The law was defended by, among others, the U.S. Conference of
Mayors, the Council of State Governments, the National Association
of Counties, the National League of Cities, the American Civil
Liberties Union and the American Bar Association.
   In today's decision, White acknowledged that ``a considerable
amount of private or intimate association'' might occur in New York
City's private clubs.
   However, he said the same is true ``in many restauarants and
other places of public accommodation, but that fact alone does not
afford the entity as a whole any constitutional immunity to
practice discrimination when the government has barred it from
doing so.''
   White said some clubs may be able to prove they were organized
for ``specific expressive purposes'' they will not be able to
pursue ``if they cannot confine ... membership to those who share
the same sex, for example, or the same religion.''
   But he added, ``It seems sensible enough to believe that many of
the large clubs covered by the (New York City) law are not of this
kind.''
   Two justices who joined in the opinion, Anthony M. Kennedy and
Harry A. Blackmun, once belonged to male-only clubs.
   Kennedy, the court's newest justice, was criticized during his
Senate confirmation hearings last year for his past membership in
exclusive private clubs.
   Kennedy quit San Francisco's men-only, all-white Olympic Club
after he was mentioned as a possible Supreme Court nominee. He had
been a member since 1962. He quite the men-only Sutter Club in his
hometown of Sacramento, Calif., eight years ago.
   Blackmun recently quit the Cosmos Club in Washington, D.C.,
where he had held a longtime membership. The club for 110 years has
barred women from becoming members, a policy it voted Saturday to
abandon.
   The clubs case is New York State Club Association vs. New York
City, 86-1836.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0258 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1216EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u f PM-WallStreetNoon     06-20 0350</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Wall Street Noon,0369</2ND_LINE>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The stock market weakened this morning in light
trading, with Wall Street brokers blaming the decline on fears of
drought-spawned inflation and higher interest rates.
   The Dow Jones average of 30 industrial stocks lost 15.65 points
by noon EDT to total 2,088.37.
   Among broader market indicators, the New York Stock Exchange
composite index of all listed issues fell 0.84 to 152.00. On the
American Stock Exchange, the market value index fell 0.89 to 304.81.
   Losing issues outnumbered gains by nearly 2-to-1 on the NYSE,
with 843 down, 432 up and 502 unchanged.
   Volume totaled 54.74 million shares in the morning, vs. 251.16
million shares Friday morning, when dividend-related trading
strategies and expiring contracts on futures and options
drastically inflated the volume figure.
   Anxiety over inflation and rising interest rates appeared to be
key elements in stock weakness today, brokers said. Falling prices
in the bond market pushed the yield on the 30-year Treasury bond up
to 9.15 percent by late morning, compared with 9.09 percent last
Friday and 8.81 percent last Tuesday.
   Fear of a prolonged drought in the Midwest wrenched up commodity
prices, another important inflation signal that contributed to the
uncertainty on Wall Street, persuading large institutional
investors to refrain from buying.
   ``The institutional business is nonexistent,'' said Philip C.
Puccio, senior vice president and manager of institutional trading
at Dillon Read & Co. in New York.
   Some traders concluded that leaders of the seven industrialized
democracies meeting in Toronto would tolerate higher interest
rates, adding to a belief on Wall Street that tighter credit is
looming.
   Most-active issues included American Cyanamid, which rose 2[ to
53 on rumors that the company may be targeted in a takeover
attempt. Kroger, another rumored takeover target, fell } to 38.
   Among blue-chip stocks, Du Pont fell 1] to 88\, IBM fell ] to
117[ and Boeing fell { to 54].
   On the over-the-counter market, Farmers Group fell 4| to 57] on
volume exceeding 1.5 million shares. Last Friday B.A.T. Industries
was denied regulatory approval to buy the company, an unexpected
setback.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0259 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1304EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r f AM-FarmScene Advisory   06-20 0018</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Farm Scene, Advisory,0021</2ND_LINE>
<TEXT>
   Editors: There is no Farm Scene moving for this cycle.
</TEXT>
<TEXT>
   The AP
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0260 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 2119EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>d f AM-Seiko-Britain     06-20 0202</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Seiko-Britain,0210</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Seiko Epson Shifting PC Work for Europe Market to Britain</HEAD>
<DATELINE>TOKYO (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Seiko Epson Corp. said Monday it plans to assemble
personal computers in Britain in an attempt to phase out its
exports to Europe from Japan.
   The company is expected to use its existing facilities in
Telford, England, for production of an IBM-compatible personal
computer that it began exporting to Europe in 1985. The company has
been manufacturing printers at the plant since last year.
   A Seiko Epson official said the company's latest move is part of
its recent corporate strategy to make its operations less
vulnerable to wide currency fluctuations and other sudden changes
in international economic conditions.
   He said the possibility of an anti-dumping suit by the European
Community against Japan-made personal computers also was considered
when making the decision. But, the official said, it was ``only one
of the many factors.''
   Seiko Epson said it plans to produce the personal computer, the
PCAX2 series, at a pace of 2,000 units a month for the time being.
But a further expansion will be considered depending on market
conditions, the official said.
   The company says it now sells 5,000 of the computers a month in
Europe.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0261 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1330EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u f BC-ScotusAt-a-Glance     06-20 0200</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-Scotus At-a-Glance,0214</2ND_LINE>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Here, at a glance, are highlights of actions
taken Monday by the Supreme Court in business-related cases:
   
   CLUBS
   
   The court let New York City bar discrimination against women and
minorities by private clubs with more than 400 members, giving
cities and states new ammunition in a growing legal assault on such
practices.
   By a unanimous vote, the justices ruled that the New York City
law is constitutional, at least as it is written.
   The law banning discrimination by public accommodations exempts
``distinctly private organizations.'' But it deprives non-religious
groups of that exempt designation if they have more than 400
members, provide regular meal service and regularly get their
members' dues paid by non-members such as the members' employers.
   The case is New York State Club Association vs. New York City,
86-1836.
   
   RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS
   
   The court placed new limits on the power of states to impose
residency requirements that restrict the number of lawyers licensed
to practice within their borders.
   The justices, voting 7-2, barred Virginia officials from
reinstating a residency requirement successfully challenged by a
lawyer living in neighboring Maryland.
   The case is Virginia Supreme Court vs. Friedman, 87-399.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0262 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1448EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r f AM-Soviet-Reforms     06-20 0486</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Soviet-Reforms,0503</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>New Law on Cooperatives Criticized</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: also on general news wires.</NOTE>
<DATELINE>MOSCOW (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The manager of Moscow's first cooperative
restaurant said Monday a new law governing the businesses could
cause many to fold, rather than promote their growth.
   Andrei Fyodorov said the law, which goes into effect July 1,
contains ``unreasonable measures and could make the cooperative
movement null and void.''
   Fyodorov, who opened his Cafe Kropotkinskya No. 36 in March
1987, was one of several panelists at a briefing for journalists on
the new law.
   The Soviet parliament approved the law last month after Soviet
leader Mikhail S. Gorbachev made clear he is depending on
development of cooperatives to provide consumer goods and services
the inefficient state-run economy cannot.
   But Fyodorov and another spokesman for cooperatives appeared
skeptical that the law will stimulate the businesses. The provision
most often attacked by cooperative managers sets a personal income
tax of 27 percent on a monthly income of 1,000 rubles (about
$1,600) and 53.5 percent on an income of 2,000 rubles (about
$3,200). The tax rate eventually reaches 90 percent.
   ``We view this as a blow against the cooperative movement,''
said Vladimir Sorokin, a cooperative spokesman who works for the
newspaper Literaturnaya Gazeta. ``It is very good theoretically,
but in practice it is bad.''
   Sorokin said the purpose of the cooperative is to increase
production, but taxation at the rate proposed will thwart ingenuity.
   ``Now we see they want to tax industrial attitude, or the
ability to organize our efforts and work more than eight hours a
day. If we develop our production in two or three years, but have
taxes, why should we do so?'' he asked.
   Soviet officials have made it clear the tax structure probably
will be reworked, sparking debate on how it should be changed.
   The disagreement is over whether to limit taxes at the central
government, whether to apply a uniform tax on cooperatives, or
whether to permit local authorities to set tax rates according to
local conditions.
   The Soviet Union has an estimated 20,000 cooperatives employing
300,000 people. They offer a range of services and products from
restaurants to agricultural goods.
   Yuri M. Lujkov of the Moscow City Soviet of People's Deputies
said the draft law would expand, rather than limit, the cooperative
movement.
   ``At the end of last year, we had 800 cooperatives in Moscow.
Less than six months have passed and we have more than 2,000. The
process is gaining momentum, especially with the adoption of the
draft law on cooperatives.''
   Lujkov said the main problems facing cooperatives are finding
staff and buildings.
   The law guarantees that cooperatives cannot be run out of
business by the state. It allows them to conduct business with
foreign companies and receive hard currency as payment, gives them
the right to own buildings and other property, and allows them to
appeal decisions by authorities not to license a cooperative.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0263 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1450EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r f AM-Marshalls-Ships     06-20 1142</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Marshalls-Ships,1179</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>US Tax Dollars Aiding Establishment Of Pacific Ship Registry</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: also on general news wires.</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By DAVID GOELLER</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>WASHINGTON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The U.S. Navy could be forced to provide
worldwide protection for merchant ships flying the world's newest
flag-of-convenience, which is being established by the Marshall
Islands with U.S. tax dollars.
   The Pacific republic is challenging the lucrative ship
registeries operated by countries such as Panama and Liberia with a
fledgling registry that is a direct outgrowth of the 1986 compact
under which the Marshalls attained independence with close ties to
the United States.
   The Marshalls registry, like those of other Third World
countries, offers shipowners the advantages of less stringent
inspection and operating rules _ and lower costs _ than nations
like the United States and Japan.
   Chief negotiator of the Marshall Islands compact was Fred Monroe
Zeder II, a close friend of Vice President George Bush, a Bush
campaign fundraiser and frequently reported to be in line for a top
job in a Bush administration.
   Zeder's son, Howard Blood Zeder, is wearing two hats in the
Marshalls registry, heading it as the republic's maritime
commissioner and serving as an officer and part-owner of the
private company that is operating the registry.
   Neither Howard Zeder nor Peter Watson, a Washington lawyer who
speaks for the Marshalls about the registry, will disclose the
arrangement's financial details or even how much Zeder is being
paid as maritime commissioner.
   The arrangement would have been an illegal conflict of interest,
had former Rep. John Seiberling, D-Ohio, Rep. Don Young, R-Alaska,
and former Interior Department official Rick Montoya had their way.
   They tried unsuccessfully to include a provision barring such
arrangements, but the Reagan administration _ with Fred Zeder as
its point man _ managed to scuttle the proposal in the House
Interior Committee.
   For a small nation, a ship registry is big business, akin to a
motor vehicle registry _ keeping computerized records, shuffling
papers and having relatively low operating costs.
   There are about 360 million tons of registered commercial
shipping in the world, much of it flying the flags of Third World
nations.
   The going rate to register a ship initially is about $1 a ton,
with an annual reregistration for about 40 cents a ton. Capturing
10 percent of the business means about $36 million in initial fees
and $14.4 million in renewal fees.
   The Marshall Islands, a former U.S. trust territory with an
annual budget of $76 million, is stressing its political stability
and the compact with the United States in efforts to break into the
ship registry business.
   The 15-year compact requires the United States ``to defend the
Marshall Islands ... and their peoples from attack or threats
thereof as the United States and its citizens are defended.''
   Watson says that in trying to get ship owners to switch to a
Marshalls flag, the republic ``is making no representations to
anyone it would be entitled to U.S. defense rights.''
   However, he said it is providing copies of the compact to
shipowners, allowing them to ``make their own interpretation.''
   Howard Hills, a State Department lawyer who helped Fred Zeder
steer the compact through Congress, says that ``Marshall Islands
vessels fall within the class of vessels which, like U.S. vessels,
are entitled to U.S. protection. ... We seek to protect U.S.
vessels everywhere in the world.''
   Hills said, however, that an attack on a Marshalls ship would
not automatically bring a U.S. response. ``This is a strategic
military policy decision,'' he said.
   The Marshalls registry is being set up under a $1.2 million line
of credit from the Marshall Island Development Authority. The money
is part of $6 million the United States has provided for economic
development.
   Watson declined to reveal the terms of the development
authority's lending to the maritime authority, which is operating
out of Honolulu _ the home base of the Zeders _ because the
Marshall Islands lack 24-hour communications facilities.
   Watson and Howard Zeder also declined to reveal the exact
financial arrangements between the maritime authority headed by
Howard Zeder and Maritime Registry Management Inc. (MRM), the
private company that is operating the registry.
   ``Coca Cola doesn't give its formula away,'' said Watson when
asked whether MRM is being paid a consultant fee or would share in
profits made by the registry. He said that ``substantially all (the
profits) go to the Marshall Islands government.''
   Howard Zeder said he is president and board chairman of MRM and
has an ownership interest, which he declined to disclose. ``I'm
sort of speaking with two hats,'' he said of his dual role. He said
his father ``has no stock or operational role.''
   When the compact was pending before Congress, the House Interior
subcommittee on public lands approved tough conflict-of-interest
rules for the implementing legislation.
   The rules would have prohibited any U.S. official who
participated in compact negotiations and implementation _ and their
immediate families _ from benefiting even indirectly from U.S.
dollars flowing to the Marshalls under the compact.
   The prohibition was opposed by the administration and was
dropped before the legislation went before the full Interior
Committee. The administration's point man was Fred Zeder, who was
President Reagan's personal representative to the Pacific trust
territories like the Marshalls.
   Seiberling, who headed the subcommittee before his retirement in
1987, said the language was aimed squarely at Fred Zeder.
   ``(Fred) Zeder was a wheeler and dealer and had interests in the
Pacific,'' Seiberling said. ``We wanted to make sure he and the
people around him didn't profit from U.S. monies.''
   Montoya, a Republican who formerly headed the Interior
Department office supervising the trust territories, said he too
favored the prohibition.
   ``I was specifically concerned with Fred Zeder,'' he said.
   The conflict-of-interest language was offered in subcommittee by
Young, the ranking Republican on the Interior Committee. He said
``a lot of those who were working (on the compact) could have had a
conflict.''
   Fred Zeder, however, said Seiberling ``went out of his way and
misused his position as a congressman. ... Seiberling has never had
any idea about business. I have never trusted him.''
   He said Seiberling was angry because he once went to Ohio to
raise money for a Republican challenger to the former
representative and ``I'd do it again.''
   He said that although ``the subject of the ship registry was
never mentioned when I was the president's representative ... I've
encouraged the idea. ... It's a wonderful thing. It will give them
stature around the world and a good income.''
   Fred Zeder said that while he's introduced his son Howard ``to a
lot of people out there (in the Pacific) over the years,'' he had
nothing to do with establishing the registry.
   He said the Marshalls government will get ``the lion's share''
of revenue from the registry, with MRM getting ``a minor piece of
the action.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0264 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1522EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u f PM-WallStreet3pm     06-20 0384</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Wall Street 3pm,0404</2ND_LINE>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The stock market weakened today in light
trading, with Wall Street brokers blaming the decline largely on
fears of drought-spawned inflation and higher interest rates.
   The Dow Jones average of 30 industrial stocks lost 21.87 points
by 3 p.m. EDT to total 2,082.15.
   Among broader market indicators, the New York Stock Exchange
composite index of all listed issues fell 0.97 to 151.87. On the
American Stock Exchange, the market value index fell 0.93 to 304.77.
   Losing issues outnumbered gains by about a 9-to-5 margin on the
NYSE, with 888 down, 507 up and 524 unchanged. Volume totaled 98.94
million shares with an hour of business left.
   Anxiety over inflation and rising interest rates were key
elements in stock weakness today, brokers said.
   Fear of a prolonged drought in the Midwest wrenched up commodity
prices, an important inflation signal that contributed to the
uncertainty on Wall Street, persuading large institutional
investors to refrain from buying.
   ``The institutional business is nonexistent,'' said Philip C.
Puccio, senior vice president and manager of institutional trading
at Dillon Read & Co. in New York.
   Some traders concluded that leaders of the seven industrialized
democracies meeting in Toronto would tolerate higher interest
rates, adding to a belief on Wall Street that tighter credit is
looming.
   Robert O'Toole, manager of over-the-counter trading at Shearson
Lehman Hutton Inc. in New York, said: ``Anytime somebody mentions
higher interest rates, that spooks us.''
   Most-active issues included Texaco, down | to 47] on volume
exceeding 2.1 million shares. The company's management has claimed
victory in a battle with takeover strategist Carl Icahn.
   American Cyanamid rose 2 to 52~ on rumors that the company may
be targeted in a takeover attempt. Kroger, another rumored takeover
target, fell } to 36.
   Johnson & Johnson fell 1 to 80 on volume exceeding 1 million
shares, an unusually busy volume. The company confirmed reports
that it bought a large block of stock as part of a share-repurchase
program.
   Among blue-chip stocks, Du Pont fell 1~ to 87}, McDonalds fell }
to 43~ and Bethlehem Steel fell | to 21].
   In the over-the-counter market, Farmers Group fell 4~ to 57[ on
volume exceeding 1.9 million shares. Last Friday B.A.T. Industries
was denied regulatory approval to buy the company, an unexpected
development.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0265 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1538EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u f AM-Japan-Beef Bjt   06-20 0672</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Japan-Beef, Bjt,0692</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Yeutter Says U.S. Could Double Beef, Citrus Sales in Japan</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By STEVEN K. PAULSON</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>TOKYO (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The United States and Japan reached a trade
agreement Monday that could double U.S. exports of beef and oranges
to more than $1 billion a year, U.S. Trade Representative Clayton
Yeutter said.
   ``My judgment is that this will turn out to be a landmark
agreement in U.S.-Japan economic relations,'' Yeutter said
following marathon talks with Japanese leaders.
   The agreement calls on Japan to nearly double its imports of
beef by 1991, and phase out involvement by Livestock Industry
Promotion Corp., which currently controls most beef imports. Japan
would be allowed to set tariffs of 70 percent in 1991, 60 percent
in 1992 and 50 percent in 1993 to allow Japanese farmers time to
adjust.
   Japan agreed to expand market access for fresh oranges by 22,000
tons annually, to 192,000 tons in 1990. After that, fresh oranges
from the United States would be permitted in unlimited quantities,
at the current tariff rates of 40 percent in season and 20 percent
off season. Quotas on orange juice will also be phased out.
   The United States also demanded and got compensation on tariffs
for other farm products in return for concessions on allowing Japan
to slowly phase out its tariffs. Included were liberalized
restrictions on imports of grapefruit, lemons, frozen peaches and
pears, pistachios, macadamias, pecans, walnuts, pet food, beef
jerky, sausage and pork and beans.
   As part of the agreement, the United States agreed to withdraw a
complaint filed with the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade,
the world body that oversees international trade. The two sides
agreed to further discuss Japan's emergency import curbs during the
current round of talks under GATT.
   The temporary agreement was signed by Yeutter and Takashi Sato,
Japan's agriculture, forestry and fisheries minister. Yeutter said
the official documents would be signed in Washington, hopefully in
the next few weeks, after the United States gathers the documents
it needs.
   Cabinet Secretary Minister Keizo Obuchi welcomed the agreement,
telling a regular news conference Monday that ``it reconfirms that
the United States and Japan are able to solve their problems
through joint efforts.''
   He said the agreement can be fully implemented without hurting
Japanese farmers.
   Yeutter said the agreement ``will require some creative and
innovative thinking'' on the part of Japanese officials in helping
Japanese farmers adjust. However, he said Japanese consumers will
benefit through an increased standard of living and cheaper prices,
while Japan's economy will benefit through increased competition.
   He said the United States will be closely watching Japan to make
sure the agreement is put into effect.
   A similar pact on computer chips came under attack last year
after the United States accused Japan of circumventing the spirit
of the agreement by selling computer chips at unfairly low prices
through third countries. That battle is still being fought through
GATT.
   Yeutter said that ``it would be unfortunate if government
agencies were to attempt to circumvent the spirit of this
agreement.''
   Yeutter also said the United States has no plans at this time to
expand its demands to include the liberalization of rice, another
thorny issue in Japan-U.S. relations. However, he said he could not
rule out that possibility in the future if the United States is
provoked.
   While agreeing to eliminate the beef import restrictions, Japan
retained the right to raise the tariffs temporarily by 25 percent
if beef imports exceed the previous year's level by 20 percent.
   After the transitional period ending in 1993, Japan's beef
tariffs will be subject to discussions in the GATT.
   Sato, the agriculture minister, said the Japanese government
will soon begin negotiations with Australia, another major beef
exporter, on the Japanese import restrictions.
   Associations of Japanese orange growers and cattle farmers
criticized the agreement.
   ``As producers who had been closely following the course of
negotiations, we can't help but keenly feel regret and anger,''
Mitsugu Horiuchi, president of the Central Union of Agricultural
Cooperatives, said in a statement.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0266 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1542EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u f BC-Japan-Beef-Glance     06-20 0328</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-Japan-Beef-Glance,0337</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Highlights Of U.S.-Japan Accord On Beef and Citrus</HEAD>
<HEAD>With Japan-Beef</HEAD>
<DATELINE>TOKYO (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Here are the highlights of the agreement signed
Monday between Japan and the United States to end a dispute over
imports of U.S. beef and citrus products:
   _During the first three years of the accord, Japan's market for
imported beef will increase 60,000 metric tons per year, to 394,000
tons in 1990.
   _Japan's Livestock Industry Promotion Corp., which currently
controls most beef imports, will phase out its involvement in beef
imports by 1991.
   _During the next three years, beef surcharges will remain near
their current level of 96 percent. Once the Livestock Industry
Promotion Corp. is phased out, Japan will set a temporary tariff on
American beef of 70 percent in 1991, 60 percent in 1992 and 50
percent thereafter.
   _In the next three years, market access for fresh oranges will
be expanded by 22,000 tons a year, to 192,000 tons in 1990. After
that time, imports of fresh oranges will be permitted in unlimited
quantities, at current tariff rates, now 40 percent in season and
20 percent off season.
   _Market access for orange juice concentrate will be increased
from 8,500 tons in 1987 to 40,000 tons in 1991. In 1992, imports of
orange juice will be permitted in unlimited quantities, at current
tariff rates of 25 percent to 35 percent.
   _Because of American concessions on beef tariffs, from 1989
tariffs on grapefruit will be reduced from 25 percent to 15 percent
in season, and from 12 percent to 10 percent off season, frozen
peaches and pears from 20 percent to 10 percent, macadamias from 9
percent to 5 percent, walnuts from 16 percent to 10 percent, pecans
from 9 percent to 5 percent, beef jerky from 25 percent to 10
percent, sausage from 25 percent to 10 percent, and pork and beans
from 28 percent to 14 percent. Tariffs will be abolished on lemons,
pistachios, and bulk and retail pet food.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0267 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1549EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u f BC-BoardofTrade Close   06-20 0244</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-Board of Trade, Close,0255</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Board of Trade, Close</HEAD>
<DATELINE>CHICAGO (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Except for wheat, all futures prices of grain and
soybeans shot up their daily limits at the opening Monday and
didn't budge all day in another drought-driven session on the
Chicago Board of Trade.
   Whenever a contract's price moves its daily limit, trading
ceases for that contract.
   The limit-up opening left only wheat futures open for trading,
which left most traders bored, said Victor Lespinasse, a trader
with Dean Witter Reynolds Inc.
   ``I sat around and talked to people. I didn't do very much,'' he
said.
   Wheat futures are influenced less by the drought than corn,
oats, soybeans and soybean products because the winter wheat crop,
which accounts for 75 percent of U.S. production, is nearly
finished growing and is being harvested.
   Lespinasse said some private meteorologists had predicted light
rain for some parts of Illinois, Indiana and Ohio on Wednesday and
Thursday.
   ``But that's not for certain, of course, and judging by the way
the market reacted, it's going to stay hot and dry,'' he said.
   At the close, wheat was 10 cents to 19{ cents higher with the
contract for delivery in July at $4.01 a bushel; corn was 15 cents
higher across the board with July at $3.24{ a bushel; oats were 10
cents higher across the board with July at $3.08 a bushel; soybeans
were 30 cents higher across the board with July at $10.01{ a bushel.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0268 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1608EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u f PM-WallStreetClosing     06-20 0129</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Wall Street Closing,0138</2ND_LINE>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The stock market weakened today in light
trading, with Wall Street brokers blaming the decline largely on
fears of drought-spawned inflation and talk of higher interest
rates.
   ``Anytime somebody mentions higher interest rates, that spooks
us,'' said Robert O'Toole, manager of over-the-counter trading at
Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. in New York.
   The slow trading volume suggested that large institutional
investors refrained from participating in the market. Brokers said
sharply higher commodity prices caused by fear of a prolonged
Midwest drought, combined with a belief that credit conditions will
tighten in coming months, were key reasons.
   ``All of that provides a classic backdrop for time-out,'' said
Joseph Barthel, a technical strategist with the Philadelphia
investment firm Butcher & Singer Inc.
</TEXT>
<NOTE>MORE</NOTE>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0269 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1612EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u f BC-Pillsbury-Campbell 1stLd-Writethru   06-20 0235</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-Pillsbury-Campbell, 1st Ld-Writethru,0243</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Restaurant Chief At Pillsbury Resigns</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: TOPS with 4 grafs to reflect Pillsbury's CORRECTION that
Campbell headed restaurant group for one year, sted five. Picks up
5th graf pvs, William H. Spoor ...</NOTE>
<DATELINE>MINNEAPOLIS (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Pillsbury Co. said Monday that the executive
who has headed its restaurant operations for just over a year has
resigned.
   The food giant said J. Jeffrey Campbell had resigned as chairman
and chief executive of Pillsbury's restaurant group, which includes
the fast-food chain Burger King.
   The company did not provide an explanation for Campbell's
resignation, and Campbell could not be reached immediately for
comment.
   He joined Burger King in 1971 and took over at Pillsbury's
restaurant group in May 1987.
   William H. Spoor, Pillsbury's chairman and chief executive, said
in a statement: ``We are grateful for Jeff's many contributions and
wish him every success in his new ventures.''
   One securities analyst said Campbell's resignation may have been
related to the performance of Pillsbury's restaurants, which he
said have lagged behind industry averages.
   ``I think they felt it was time to change the leadership to see
if that would be more instrumental in driving more positive
results,'' said Lawrence Adelman, an analyst with Dean Witter
Reynolds in New York.
   Pillsbury spokesman Larry Haeg said he would not comment on the
views of analysts. ``It was his decision and that's all I can
say,'' Haeg said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0270 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1638EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u f PM-WallStreetClosing 1stAdd   06-20 0065</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>PM-Wall Street Closing, 1st Add,0070</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>NEW YORK: Singer Inc.</HEAD>
<TEXT>
   The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials fell 20.09 to 2,083.93.
   Losers outpaced gainers by about an 8-to-5 margin on the New
York Stock Exchange, with 867 down, 587 up and 487 unchanged.
   Big Board volume totaled 116.75 million shares, against 343.92
million the previous session.
   The NYSE's composite index fell 0.88 to 151.96.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0271 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1729EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r f AM-EEC-Trucking     06-20 0288</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-EEC-Trucking,0298</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>EEC Agrees To Free Trucking</HEAD>
<DATELINE>LUXEMBOURG (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The European Economic Community took another
major step toward creating a single European market by deciding on
Monday to fully liberalize trucking by 1993, officials said.
   Trucking within the 12-country bloc still works mostly under a
system of licences allocated under quotas that are negotiated
between individual countries.
   Only 10 percent of the EEC's truck drivers have the right to
move freely across borders. Currently the EEC has 13,477 licences
outstanding, but the number will be increased by 25 percent this
year and 40 percent next year, the EEC transportation ministers
decided.
   The next steps toward complete liberalization have not yet been
decided. Germany, which chaired the meeting and holds the most
truck licences, insisted on the need to harmonize simultaneously
road taxes and working conditions for truck drivers.
   The present, fragmented system costs time and money. Estimations
of the cost of a fragmented European market, including road
transport, range from 50 to 300 billion dollars a year.
   The European Commission, which for years called for free road
transport, claimed the present system acts as a barrier to trade,
is used by some member states to reserve the bulk of their road
exports to their own national hauliers and discriminates against
smaller countries, especially those on the periphery of the
Community.
   The Commission has figured that about one vehicle in three
traveling among EEC member states is traveling empty, making the
roads more crowded and wasting time and energy.
   ``Industry and commerce are paying more than they should to
transport their goods and services to markets in other member
countries,'' the Commission says. ``These increased distribution
costs are reflected in the price of goods to the consumer.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0272 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1921EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r f BC-WeeklySteel     06-20 0145</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>BC-Weekly Steel,0146</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Steel Output Fell 5 Percent in Week</HEAD>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Steel production fell to 1.846 million tons in
the week ended June 18, a decrease of 5.0 percent from the previous
week's 1.944 million tons, the American Iron and Steel Institute
reported Monday.
   The industry's production amounted to 86.1 percent of capacity
during the week, compared with 90.7 percent in the previous week.
   Estimated figures for the year to date showed production at
47.328 million net tons, an increase of 23.2 percent from the
38.420 million net tons in the previous year.
   Production so far this year used 90.8 percent of capacity,
compared with 73.9 percent a year earlier.
   Net tonnage by district for the week ended June 18: Northeast
Coast, 263,000; Pittsburgh, 202,000; Youngstown, 112,000; Lake
Erie, 146,000; Detroit, 150,000; Chicago, 482,000; Midwest,
188,000; Southern, 209,000; and Western, 94,000.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0273 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1925EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r f AM-IBMPCs     06-20 0460</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-IBM PCs,0478</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>IBM Unveils Trade-In Program for Personal Computers</HEAD>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   International Business Machines Corp. unveiled a
program Monday that will allow people to trade in older IBM
personal computers for credit on its new Personal System-2
computers.
   IBM's announcement came the same day that Houston-based Compaq
Computer Corp., its archrival in PCs, announced a pair of personal
computers using the speedy 80386 microprocessor from Intel Corp.
   Compaq said one of its models, the Deskpro 386-25, will be the
fastest personal computer available in the world. But IBM responded
that it will take the lead when its fastest model, announced
earlier this month, becomes generally available in August or
September.
   IBM's trade-in program will begin July 1 and end Aug. 31,
although an extension is possible, said Bill Lyons, IBM's general
manager of Personal System-2 merchandising.
   The trade-in program is for the United States only and will
apply to any member of the original line of PCs, including the PC,
XT, AT, PCjr and PC Portable, as long as it is in good working
order. It also includes monitors, but not other peripherals.
   IBM estimates 4.5 million of the old line of personal computers
have been sold in the United States and about 6 million worldwide.
The company has shipped worldwide more than 2 million of the new
PS-2 line, which was introduced in April 1987.
   IBM said the trade-ins are available only through authorized
dealers who choose to participate. The dealers will be free to
decide how much to pay for returned personal computers, but IBM
will support the price by guaranteeing payments to dealers.
   Payments to dealers could range from $100 or less for an
original PC or PCjr to $1,000 for a recent-vintage AT, Lyons said.
Dealers also will be reimbursed for handling and transportation
costs.
   The returned personal computers will be resold through dealers
and brokers in used PCs, IBM said.
   Lyons said he was not concerned that the trade-in program would
release a flood of older personal computers onto the market and
depress demand for the new machines.
   ``I think it's a way to gain excitement over the summer and to
get people to take a fresh look at our PS-2s,'' Lyons said.
   About half a million used IBM PCs are placed with new users
annually, either by transfer within organizations or through
resale, Lyons said.
   In addition to its top-of-the-line Deskpro 386-25, Compaq
announced a Deskpro 386s that is much cheaper than other computers
in its class because it uses a special new version of Intel's 80386
microprocessor.
   Lyons said IBM is ``assessing'' the new Intel chip, but does not
want to introduce a computer built around it until it is sure the
chips will be available in sufficient volume.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0274 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1954EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r f AM-Forbes-Grave     06-20 0238</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Forbes-Grave,0246</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Publisher Says He Reburied Father In Scotland Because His Heart
Was There</HEAD>
<DATELINE>LONDON (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Flamboyant publisher Malcolm Forbes said Monday he
had his father's body exhumed from a grave in New Jersey and
reburied in his beloved homeland of Scotland.
   ``My father's heart was in Scotland,'' the 69-year-old publisher
said in a television interview on the British Broadcasting Corp.
``Bringing somebody home to a place that they love is a tribute,
not a dig-up or a put-down.''
   Bertie Charles Forbes, who died in 1954 at age 74, was reburied
Sunday in front of St. Kane's Church at New Deer in northeast
Scotland where he worshipped before emigrating to the United States
at the age of 24 to make his fortune in the magazine world.
   Malcolm Forbes said his father was originally buried in
Inglewood, N.J., where he reared his family. But Forbes said he and
his brother decided it was right to take his father's body home and
bury him in the family plot beside his grandfather.
   Over the weekend, Forbes also bought the ruined castle of
Pitsligo, which once belonged to the Forbes clan, for 25,000 pounds
($44,500). He said he wasn't going to restore it but does plan to
conserve it and fix part of it up so that family members can stay
there when they visit Scotland.
   The reburial service for Forbes' father was attended by 13
members of the family.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0275 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1755EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u f AM-CommodityRdp     06-20 0794</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Commodity Rdp,0821</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Corn, Soybean Futures Zoom Higher On Dry Weather</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By DAVID DISHNEAU</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>CHICAGO (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Grain and soybean futures prices spurted sharply
higher Monday in another drought-driven session on the Chicago
Board of Trade.
   On other markets, livestock and meat futures were mixed; oil
futures fell; precious metals were lower and stock-index futures
retreated.
   In another signal of rising prices, the Commodity Research
Bureau's index of 21 industrial and agricultural commodities rose
2.93 points to a four-year-high of 266.23.
   Except for wheat, all grain and soybean futures on the Chicago
Board of Trade shot up their daily allowable limits at the opening
bell and didn't budge all day.
   Whenever a futures contract's price moves its daily limit,
trading ceases in that contract. The limit-up opening left only
wheat futures open for trading, which in turn left most traders
``bored,'' said Victor Lespinasse, a trader with Dean Witter
Reynolds Inc.
   ``I sat around and talked to people. I didn't do very much,'' he
said.
   Wheat futures were influenced less by the drought than corn,
oats and soybeans because the winter wheat crop, which accounts for
75 percent of U.S. production, is nearly finished growing and is
being harvested.
   Lespinasse said some private meteorologists had predicted light
rain for some parts of Illinois, Indiana and Ohio on Wednesday and
Thursday.
   ``But that's not for certain, of course, and judging by the way
the market reacted, it's going to stay hot and dry,'' he said.
``And as long as it's hot and dry, we'll keep going higher.''
   After the close, the National Weather Service issued a
six-to-10-day forecast predicting above-normal temperatures and
below-normal rainfall for the Grain Belt in the first five days of
next week.
   The near-month soybean contract, for July delivery, settled
above $10 a bushel, an 11-year high. Soybeans reached an all-time
high of $12.90 a bushel in June 1973.
   Wheat futures are at their highest level in nearly seven years.
Corn futures prices are at four-year highs.
   The Board of Trade said the daily limit on corn futures would
return to 10 cents a bushel on Tuesday. The limit was raised to 15
cents for three days, ending Monday, after all three corn contracts
for 1988 delivery finished up the limit on two consecutive days.
   Wheat settled 10 cents to 19} cents higher with the contract for
delivery in July at $4.01\ a bushel; corn was 15 cents higher
across the board with July at $3.24{ a bushel; oats were 10 cents
higher across the board with July at $3.08 a bushel; soybeans were
30 cents higher across the board with July at $10.01{ a bushel.
   On the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, traders used the phrase ``a
drought spread'' to describe Monday's pattern of widely mixed
prices for future delivery of livestock and meat.
   Most prices for summer and fall delivery moved lower in
anticipation of increased supplies as higher feed prices and
shrinking pasture land caused widespread slaughtering of animals,
analysts said.
   But prices for delivery in the winter and spring soared, some by
their permissable limits, on expectations that over the long term
the drought-related herd liquidation will result in a sharp drop in
supplies, said Thomas Morgan, president of Sterling Research Corp.
in Arlington Heights, Ill.
   Live cattle were .25 cents lower to 1.50 cents higher with June
at 70.60 cents a pound; feeder cattle were 1.50 cents lower to 1.22
cents higher with August at 70.30 cents a pound; hogs were 1.27
cents lower to 1.50 cents higher with June at 50.45 cents a pound;
frozen pork bellies were 1.13 cents lower to 2 cents higher with
July at 41.97 cents a pound.
   Crude oil for near-month delivery on the New York Mercantile
Exchange fell to $16 a barrel for the first time since March 16 due
to an abundance of available crude oil, said John Azarow, an
analyst at Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. in New York.
   West Texas Intermediate crude oil settled 45 cents lower to 6
cents higher with July at $16 a barrel; heating oil was .25 cent to
.55 cent lower with July at 43.18 cents a gallon; unleaded gasoline
was .50 cent lower to .04 cent higher with July at 49.47 cents a
gallon.
   Gold and silver futures slipped lower on the Commodity Exchange
in New York in reaction to the drop in oil prices and the strength
of the dollar, analysts said.
   Gold settled $3.80 lower across the board with August at $454.50
a troy ounce; silver was 5.5 cents to 6 cents lower with July at
$7.195 a troy ounce.
   Stock-index futures dipped on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange,
where the contract for September delivery of the Standard & Poor's
500 index settled 1.25 points lower at 271.50.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0276 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1756EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u f AM-WallStreet 1stLd-Writethru   06-20 0530</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Wall Street, 1st Ld-Writethru,0550</2ND_LINE>
<NOTE>Eds: Updates with closing prices throughout.</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By RICK GLADSTONE</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>AP Business Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The stock market weakened Monday in the
second-slowest session of the year, which brokers attributed
largely to recurring fears of drought-spawned inflation and talk
that interest rates will rise.
   The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials dropped at the opening
bell on Wall Street and remained lower throughout the session,
finishing at 2,083.93, down 20.09. Broader market indicators also
fell.
   New York Stock Exchange volume totaled 116.75 million shares,
the slowest since a 1988 record low of 102.64 million shares traded
May 23. It also was about one-third the volume of the year's record
high of 343.92 million shares traded Friday, when dividend-capture
strategies and expiring contracts on futures and options grossly
inflated the volume figure.
   Traders said a key element in the market's behavior Monday was
renewed inflation anxiety caused by a prolonged agricultural
drought, which has led to the likelihood of sharply higher grain
and meat prices.
   There also was talk that leaders of the seven industrialized
democracies meeting in Toronto might coordinate a round of higher
interest rates.
   ``Anytime somebody mentions higher interest rates, that spooks
us,'' said Robert O'Toole, manager of over-the-counter trading at
Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. in New York.
   Joseph Barthel, a technical strategist with the
Philadelphia-based investment firm Butcher & Singer Inc., said the
economic uncertainty provided ``a classic backdrop for time-out.''
   The stock-market decline came despite some predictions of a
short-term rally caused by expected demand from large institutional
investors and money managers, who want to put unused money to work
in stocks prior to the end of the fiscal quarter June 30, a
phenomenon known as ``window dressing.''
   ``They were very eager to buy stocks,'' said Philip C. Puccio,
senior vice president and manager of institutional trading at
Dillon Read & Co. in New York. ``Now they're saying `well, we're
going to wait.'''
   Declining issues outnumbered advances by about 3-to-2 in
nationwide trading of NYSE-listed stocks, with 883 down, 588 up and
485 unchanged.
   The most prominent NYSE issue was Texaco, which fell 1[ to 46~
on volume of more than 2.6 million shares. Takeover strategist Carl
Icahn conceded defeat in a shareholder proxy battle with the oil
giant.
   Among other blue-chips, DuPont fell 2 to 87|, McDonalds fell ~
to 43}, Woolworth fell 1\ to 50~ and Minnesota Mining fell 1\ to
62{.
   In the over-the-counter market, Farmers Group fell 5] to 56} on
news that California regulators unexpectedly denied B.A.T.
Industries permission to take over the company.
   Nationwide, consolidated volume in NYSE-listed issues, including
trading at regional exchanges and on the over-the-counter market,
totaled 136.18 million shares.
   The Wilshire Associates Equity Index, the market value of NYSE,
American and OTC issues, fell $15.06 billion, off 0.56 percent from
Friday.
   The NYSE composite index of all listed issues fell 0.88 to
151.96.
   Standard & Poor's index of 400 industrials fell 2.04 to 310.76,
and S&P's 500-stock composite index fell 1.74 to 268.94.
   At the American Stock Exchange, the market value index fell 0.58
to 305.12. The NASDAQ composite index for the over-the-counter
market closed at 385.99, down 0.93.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0277 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 2002EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r f AM-Milk-Antitrust     06-20 0498</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Milk-Antitrust,0513</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Southland To Pay $10 Million In Milk Price-Fixing Case</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By ED BIRK</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>TALLAHASSEE, Fla. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Southland Corp. has agreed to pay
nearly $10 million to settle charges that a former division
conspired with other producers to fix prices of milk sold to
Florida schoolchildren, the state said Monday.
   Past and present officials of Velda Farms Dairy of Miami,
formerly owned by Dallas-based Southland, acknowledged the company
participated in illicit price fixing, Florida Attorney General Bob
Butterworth said.
   ``They get together in a room and decide what part of the market
each one wants and what price each one wants,'' he said. ``We got
into that room.''
   Southland, parent of 7-Eleven convenience stores, will help
Butterworth litigate cases against six other milk producers as part
of the agreement. The state likely will go to trial in early 1989
against the others, he said.
   The bid rigging was the action of at least six Velda Farms sales
officials, and Southland's top management was unaware of it, he
said.
   ``They have acted very responsibly since the charges were
brought to their attention and have taken steps to make amends to
the victimized school boards,'' he said.
   There was still a possibility of criminal charges against
individual officials of Velda Farms or other companies, but that
would be decided by a federal grand jury, said Butterworth.
However, immunity was granted to several officials, although
Butterworth declined to name them.
   He also declined to say whether the $10 million equaled the
overcharges, saying that might hinder his chances of getting larger
settlements from the other companies.
   Of Southland's 730 convenience stores in Florida, most have
beer-and-wine licenses and all have state lottery licenses. The
company would not say how much those products generate in sales.
But if Southland had been found guilty in a criminal proceeding, it
could have lost those licenses under Florida law.
   ``Obviously those are important factors to us in our business,
especially since we had sold the Velda Farms Dairy,'' said Cecilia
Norwood, a Southland spokeswoman in Dallas.
   As part of the settlement, the state Department of Business
Regulation has agreed not to take action that could jeopardize
Southland's alcoholic beverage or lottery licenses.
   But Southland will be placed on probation for three years,
during which it must notify the department of any criminal
wrongdoing or beverage violation alleged by the state or federal
governments, according to the agreement.
   Butterworth filed a federal antitrust lawsuit in February
against the milk firms, charging them with unlawfully allocating
contracts among themselves over 10 years for supplying milk to at
least 32 of the state's 67 school districts.
   The other milk producers named in the lawsuit are Borden Inc. of
Columbus, Ohio; Flavorich Inc. of Louisville, Ky.; Pet Inc. of St.
Louis; Kraft (Sealtest) of Chicago; Hart's Dairy (now Dean Foods
Inc.) of Fort Myers; Dean Food Products Co. of Chicago (owner of
T.G. Lee Foods Inc. of Orlando and McArthur Dairies Inc. of Miami).
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0278 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1819EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u f AM-StuartKarl 1stLd-Writethru f0198 06-20 0355</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Stuart Karl, 1st Ld-Writethru, f0198,0366</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Video Wizard Pleads Innocent To Campaign Contribution Charges</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: New details thruout; Also moved on general newswires</NOTE>
<DATELINE>SANTA ANA, Calif. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A video producer pleaded innocent
Monday to charges that he illegally donated nearly $200,000 to
several political candidates, including former Sen. Gary Hart.
   George Stuart Karl Jr., 34, of Newport Beach, who produced the
best-selling Jane Fonda ``Workout'' videos, pleaded innocent to six
counts of campaign financing law violations, one count of
conspiracy and five counts of filing false statements.
   He was ordered by U.S. Magistrate Ronald Rose to return for
trial on Aug. 23 before U.S. District Judge Alicemarie Stotler.
   Karl, who was indicted on June 9, posted $25,000 bail and
forfeited his passport.
   His attorneys and the prosecutor refused to comment on the case.
   If convicted of all charges, Karl faces a maximum sentence of 36
years in prison and $930,000 in fines.
   The indictment alleges that Karl asked former employees to
contribute up to $1,000 each to various candidates, then reimbursed
them in cash.
   The bulk of the donations, $159,500, went to Hart's 1984
presidential campaign, the indictment alleged.
   The indictment alleges about $38,000 in illegal contributions
were given to the 1986 Senate campaigns of John Kerry of
Massachusetts, Timothy Wirth of Colorado, Tom Daschle of South
Dakota, Bob Edgar of Pennsylvania, Patrick Leahy of Vermont and
Alan Cranston of California.
   The indictment also cites alleged donations to the unsuccessful
congressional campaign of Orange County Superior Court Judge David
O. Carter.
   In the indictment, Karl is accused of using his corporation,
Karl-Lorimar Home Video, to give an illegal $25,000 contribution to
a fund-raiser entitled ``An Evening With Barbra Streisand and Robin
Williams,'' which benefitted the various candidates.
   Karl founded the Karl Video Corp. in 1979, then sold it to
Lorimar in 1984 for an undisclosed amount. However, he became
president and chief executive of Karl-Lorimar Home Video division,
under contract until 1989.
   In March 1987, Karl resigned following conflict-of-interest
allegations. In November of that year, Lorimar-Telepictures filed
suit against Karl, alleging he violated terms of a financial
agreement when he resigned from Karl-Lorimar.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0279 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 2013EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r f AM-Pillsbury-Campbell     06-20 0646</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Pillsbury-Campbell,0673</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Restaurant Chief At Pillsbury Resigns</HEAD>
<DATELINE>MINNEAPOLIS (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Pillsbury Co. announced on Monday the
resignation of J. Jeffrey Campbell, who headed its restaurant
business for more than a year.
   Pillsbury also announced a series of other organizational
changes designed to implement its new strategic business plan and
streamline the structure of its senior management.
   In trading on the New York Stock Exchange, Pillsbury rose $1 a
share to $36.75.
   The company did not provide an explanation for the departure of
Campbell, who had responsibility since May 1987 for all of
Pillsbury's restaurant operations. He could not be reached for
comment.
   Campbell began his Pillsbury career in 1971 with Burger King,
the fast-food chain that is the centerpiece of the company's
restaurant business but whose future with Pillsbury has been the
subject of speculation in recent months.
   William H. Spoor, Pillsbury's chief executive, had said in March
that Burger King ``is central to Pillsbury'' and said the parent
company had no intention of selling the fast-food chain.
   In addition to Campbell's resignation as chairman and chief
executive of its restaurant group, Pillsbury announced the
following appointments:
</TEXT>
<TEXT>
   _Charles S. Olcott, 41, president of Burger King U.S.A., was
named president and chief operating officer of Burger King Corp.
with responsibility for U.S. and international operations.
   _Richard T. Crowder, 48, senior vice president and corporate
risk officer, was given the added responsibility of Distron, the
distribution and procurement division of Burger King.
   _Jerry W. Levin, 44, executive vice president for corporate
development, was given the added responsibility for S&A Restaurant
Corp., operators of Steak and Ale and Bennigan's restaurants.
   _John L. Morrison, 43, executive vice president and chairman of
Pillsbury U.S. Foods, was given added responsibility for The
Haagen-Dazs Co.
   Olcott, Crowder, Levin and Morrison will report directly to
Spoor, as will Russell J. Bragg, 52, vice president and group vice
president for industrial foods.
   ``We have streamlined our senior management structure to bring
added strength and focus to our most important growth
opportunities,'' Spoor said.
   Stephen Carnes, a securities analyst with Piper Jaffray &
Hopwood in Minneapolis, said Campbell's departure indicates a
desire to upgrade the restaurant group's performance but does not
signal a move away from the Burger King commitment.
   ``With his departure, it really says that Pillsbury is very
interested in building the restaurant business and restoring a
higher level of profitability,'' Carnes said.
   Carnes said the strategy laid out at Burger King ``had not
really been executed,'' and said he believes Campbell's resignation
at least indirectly resulted from Burger King's problems.
   Regarding the other changes, Carnes said the moves spreads out
responsibility and called newly organized team ``a good lineup.''
He said the men chosen for the new responsibilities fit well into
those jobs.
   Lawrence Adelman, an analyst with Dean Witter Reynolds in New
York, said Pillsbury ``felt it was time to change the leadership to
see if that would be more instrumental in driving more positive
results.
   ``I think they want to take a fresh approach to that business
unit,'' Adelman said. ``The future of Pillsbury is very closely
tied to Burger King.''
   Pillsbury spokesman Larry Haeg said he would not comment on the
views of analysts.
   ``It was his (Campbell's) decision and that's all I can say,''
Haeg said.
   Pillsbury's restaurant division accounted for about 45 percent
of the company's fiscal 1987 sales.
   Operating profits for the restaurant group for fiscal 1987 were
down 28 percent from fiscal 1986, but were ``essentially
unchanged'' from fiscal 1985, Haeg said. However, he was unable to
locate exact dollar figures late Monday. Adelman said average
dollar sales per Burger King unit have averaged about $1 million
for the past two years even though sales in the restaurant group
rose 4 percent to $2.03 billion in 1987 from $1.97 billion in 1986.
The increase was largely due to the addition of new stores, Haeg
said.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0280 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1845EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u f AM-USX 1stLd-Writethru   06-20 0567</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-USX, 1st Ld-Writethru,0589</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>USX Sells Transportation Businesses</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: ADDS five grafs at end with comment from Blackstone
spokesman.</NOTE>
<DATELINE>PITTSBURGH (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   USX Corp. said Monday it plans to sell its
transportation businesses for more than $500 million to a joint
venture it is forming with Blackstone Capital Partners and managers
of the rail and water subsidiaries.
   Industry analysts called the planned sale a good move for the
oil and steel giant.
   The deal would raise the total of USX asset sales to $5.5
billion since David Roderick became chairman in 1979. It also would
pare USX's wholly owned transportation businesses to the petroleum
pipelines and ocean-going tankers of its Marathon Oil and Texas Oil
& Gas subsidiaries.
   Roderick has said USX intends to sell another $750 million in
assets over the next year and a half.
   The deal also would drain USX's Diversified Group of its largest
business segment, leaving realty, engineering and related
consulting and several other small businesses.
   ``It's a good approach,'' said George Gaspar, an analyst with
the investment firm Robert W. Baird and Co. Inc. in Milwaukee.
``The company wants to disengage from the direct, wholly-owned
operations that support its steel operations.''
   ``The cash they'll get will allow them more flexibility,''
Gaspar said, adding that USX might use the proceeds from the sale
to make an oil-relatd acquisition or repurchase its own stock.
   In consolidated New York Stock Exchange trading, USX shares
finished unchanged at $31.37{.
   Jeffrey Miller, an analyst with Duff & Phelps Inc. in Chicago,
said of the sale, ``It's good for them to concentrate on the energy
and the steel (segments).''
   Miller suggested USX use the cash from its asset sales to reduce
its debt.
   USX, based in Pittsburgh, signed a letter of intent with
Blackstone, leaving a definitive agreement to be negotiated and
regulatory approval, financing and USX board approval to be
obtained, USX said.
   The Blackstone Group was founded in 1985 by former Commerce
Secretary Peter G. Peterson and Stephen A. Schwarzman, former head
of mergers and acquisitions at Lehman Brothers Kuhn Loeb Inc.,
predecessor to Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc.
   The deal covers all USX's railroads: the Bessemer and Lake Erie;
Birmingham Southern; Duluth, Missabe and Iron Range; Elgin, Joliet
and Eastern; The Lake Terminal, and the Union Railroad.
   Warrior & Gulf Navigation Co., the Pittsburgh & Conneaut Dock
Co., and the USS Great Lakes Fleet Inc. also are included.
   The subsidiaries employ about 4,000 people who operate about 300
locomotives and 20,000 rail cars over more than 2,000 miles of
track as well as 14 lake vessels, 305 barges and 27 tugboats.
   The partners said they will assume labor contracts, recognize
employees' unions and pay comparable benefits to all employees.
They also anticipate no change in customer relations.
   Blackstone spokesman James Mossman said his firm believes the
units can expand their outside business. But he said the success of
the new company doesn't depend on that.
   The new company ``will be highly leveraged,'' Mossman
acknowledged.
   ``But the cash flows of these companies are quite strong and
even if there's a downturn we believe they'll still be able to
support the debt,'' he added.
   Mossman declined to disclose revenues and earnings of the
transportation units.
   But USX's published financial reports list their combined sales
at $353 million for 1987, a year in which they were likely hurt by
the effects of the company's six-month steel strike.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0281 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1928EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u f AM-Brunswick-Georgia-Pacific     06-20 0408</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Brunswick-Georgia-Pacific,0422</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Georgia-Pacific to Buy Brunswick Pulp & Paper for $665 Million</HEAD>
<DATELINE>ATLANTA (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Georgia-Pacific Corp. announced Monday it has
agreed to buy Brunswick Pulp & Paper Co. for $665 million.
   Brunswick, which owns one of the world's largest bleached pulp
and paperboard mills at Brunswick, Ga., is a joint venture of Mead
Corp. and Scott Paper Co. The purchase includes that mill, three
sawmills and around 535,000 acres of timberland.
   The acquisition is subject to negotiation of a definitive
agreement, regulatory approvals and approvals by the companies'
boards of directors. Final approval is expected within two months,
according to an announcement from Georgia-Pacific.
   The Brunswick mill produces around 1,500 tons a day of bleached
softwood market pulp and 500 tons a day of bleached paperboard,
used to make products such as folding cartons, paper plates and
cups.
   ``This is an unusual opportunity to make a major acquisition of
strategic importance to our core business at an attractive price.
The Brunswick property provides world-class manufacturing capacity
with a strong fiber base,'' said T. Marshall Hahn Jr., chairman and
chief executive officer of Georgia-Pacific.
   Mead has been divesting itself of some basic commodity
operations so that it can invest in expansion of higher-value
coated paperboard.
   Philip E. Lippincott, Scott's chairman and chief executive
officer, said ``an increasingly greater proportion of Brunswick
Pulp & Paper Co.'s production is being directed to the worldwide
pulp market, a strategic direction which Scott is not emphasizing
for the future. At the same time, Scott is focusing its fiber
strategy on dedicated sources of strategic types of fiber, such as
eucalyptus, which Brunswick does not produce.''
   He said the sale is part of the company's plan to sell off parts
of its operation which do not fit its long-term strategy.
   Georgia-Pacific said the acquisition represents a significant
addition to its present position as a major producer of market
pulp, adding 525,000 tons a year to its current capacity of 700,00
tons.
   It also more than doubles Georgia-Pacific's bleached board
capacity, adding 175,000 tons to the 171,000-ton capacity of tis
facilty at Crossett, Ark.
   The 535,000 acres of timberland are located in areas where they
can be used by the Brunswick mill and other Georgia-Pacific
facilities in South Carolina, Georgia and Florida, the company said.
   The sawmills, located at Pearson and Sterling, Ga., and
McCormick, S.C., have a combined capacity of almost 200 million
board feet of Southern pine lumber products per year.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0282 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 1940EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u f AM-RailroadBankruptcy     06-20 0395</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Railroad Bankruptcy,0408</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Railroad Declares Bankruptcy After Federal Arbitration Fails</HEAD>
<DATELINE>BILLERICA, Mass. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Delaware & Hudson Railway Co., a
subsidiary of Guilford Transportation Industries, filed for
bankruptcy in U.S. District Court in Delaware Monday after failing
to recieve approval on a lease agreement that rail officials say
would save the company more than $1 million a month.
   ``Delaware and Hudson had been working on negative funding,''
said Guilford Vice President F. Colin Pease. ``Without that
agreement, the banks refuse to give D&H credit, so it can't get
financing.''
   A federal arbitrator last week barred D&H from leasing its
railroads to another Guilford subsidiary, Springfield Terminal,
Pease said. Springfield Terminal operates under lenient labor
regulations which allow for decreased labor costs.
   ``The arbitrator is wrong,'' Pease said. ``His actions conflict
with every Interstate Commerce Commission decision I can find. His
actions have destroyed a railroad.''
   The Interstate Commerce Commission is expected to designate an
interim operator to take over the D&H lines, which run primarily
through New York and Pennsylvania. ICC officials said offers have
been made by Consolidated Rail Corp. of Philadelphia and Delaware
Otsego Corp. of Cooperstown, N.Y.
   Guilford officials said D&H had lost $8.1 million last year and
at least $8 million so far in 1988.
   Meanwhile, around 1,200 unionized Guilford employees returned to
their jobs Monday after a seven-month strike over safety
conditions. Workers returned to railyards in Maine and
Massachusetts in accordance with last week's arbitration board
decision.
   Although the returning strikers were all put back on the company
payroll, Pease said it may take a week or so before they resume
their old positions.
   Pease said the returnees were meeting with supervisors and were
being scheduled for physical examinations and tests of railroad
operating rules, a requirement for workers who have been off the
job for 30 days or more.
   The workers from Guilford's Springfield Terminal walked off the
job to protest safety conditions following a Nov. 12 fatal accident
in Lawrence, Mass.
   A federal arbitration board ruled last week that the strike was
legal under federal law as a protest of unsafe working conditions
at Guilford and ordered the company to allow the workers to return.
It also ordered Guilford to pay the striking workers an estimated
$15 million in back wages.
   Guilford appealed the arbitration board ruling in U.S. District
Court in Portland, Maine, last Wednesday.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0283 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 2134EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>d f AM-Black&Decker-UK     06-20 0154</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Black & Decker-UK,0159</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Black & Decker Acquires British Toolmaker</HEAD>
<DATELINE>TOWSON, Md. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Black & Decker Corp. has acquired Aven Tools
Ltd., a British maker of high-quality circular saw blades and other
accessories, the company announced Monday.
   Terms of the sale of Aven Tools, which is located in Maltby,
Yorkshire, were not disclosed.
   ``Aven, in the U.K., together with American Emblem Tool Co., a
U.S. accessory manufacturer which we acquired in January 1987, make
Black & Decker one of the leading manufacturers of circular saw
blades in the world,'' said George M. Sherman, president of Black &
Decker's Worldwide Power Tools Group.
   Black & Decker, a maker of power tools and appliances, earlier
this year dropped a bitterly contested, hostile bid to acquire
American Standard Inc., a plumbing and air conditioning
manufacturer.
   American Standard instead was taken private in a $2.5 billion
leveraged buyout led by the investment banker Kelso & Co.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0284 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 2135EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u f AM-Dollar-Gold 2ndLd-Writethru f0257 06-20 0584</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Dollar-Gold, 2nd Ld-Writethru, f0257,0598</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Dollar Rises; Gold Falls</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: SUBS 9th graf pvs Other late...to RESTORE full quote for
Canadian dollar. Picks up 10th graf, Other late...</NOTE>
<BYLINE>By PETER COY</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>AP Business Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>NEW YORK (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The dollar rose against most major currencies
except the British pound and Canadian dollar Monday, aided by the
absence of negative news from officials attending the economic
summit in Toronto.
   Gold prices fell in the United States. Republic National Bank of
New York said gold was bid at $450.70 a troy ounce as of 4 p.m.
EDT, down from $454.25 late Friday.
   Dealers said there was no specific news to account for the
dollar's strength. It came in spite of continued dollar sales by
West Germany and expectations that the West German central bank
would raise a key interest rate on Tuesday.
   The gains were in line with a long-term trend stemming from last
week's better-than-expected U.S. trade report for April, which
indicated the trade deficit is shrinking.
   Peter M. Schmidhuber, monetary affairs commissioner of the
European Economic Community, was quoted as saying that the Group of
Seven summit leaders believe the dollar will remain roughly in the
range of the last four months at least through year-end.
   But as for major news from the Toronto summit, ``We didn't
expect anything and we didn't get anything,'' said Douglas Madison,
a corporate foreign-exchange trader for BankAmerica International
in New York.
   In Tokyo, where trading ends before Europe's business day
begins, the dollar rose 0.36 Japanese yen to 126.09 yen, up from
Friday's 125.73 yen. Later in London, it was quoted at 126.23 yen.
At the end of trading in New York, the dollar rose to 126.31 yen
from 125.74 yen late Friday.
   In London, the dollar gained against the British pound. It cost
$1.7865 to buy one pound, more expensive than $1.7827 late Friday.
Later in New York the dollar weakened to $1.7845 to the pound from
$1.7837 late Friday.
   Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Friday's
rates, included: 1.7608 West German marks, up from 1.7486; 1.4623
Swiss francs, up from 1.4558; 1.2075 Canadian dollars, down from
1.2138; 5.9368 French francs, up from 5.9010; and 1,305.50 Italian
lire, up from 1,298.50.
   Other late dollar rates in Europe, compared with late Friday,
included: 1.7543 West German marks, up from 1.7530; 1.4580 Swiss
francs, up from 1.4575; 5.9173 French francs, up from 5.9120;
1.9730 Dutch guilders, up from 1.9695; 1,302.00 Italian lire, up
from 1,301.35, and 1.2094 Canadian dollars, down from 1.2130.
   Gold prices rose in Asia and Europe, catching up with levels
reached late Friday in U.S. trading, but then fell in the United
States in part because of a drop in oil prices.
   In Hong Kong, gold rose $3.15 an ounce to close at a bid price
of $455.30.
   Gold rose in London to a late bid price of $453.90 a troy ounce,
up from late Friday's $450. After dull trading in Zurich,
Switzerland, gold closed at a bid of $452.50, up from $450.40 late
Friday.
   Later on the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold bullion for
current delivery closed at $450.70 a troy ounce, down from $454.50
an ounce late Friday.
   Silver bullion prices followed the rise of gold on the London
market, where the metal closed at a late bid price of $7.26 a troy
ounce, up from Friday's $7.08. On New York's Comex, silver bullion
for current delivery closed at $7.175 a troy ounce, down from
$7.235 an ounce.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0285 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 2149EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>u f AM-LowRiver 1stLd-Writethru f0240 06-20 0508</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Low River, 1st Ld - Writethru, f0240,0519</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Drought Creates More Problems For Mississippi River Shipping</HEAD>
<NOTE>Eds: Leads with 12 grafs to add qualifier in 5th graf, change
predicted time of dredge arrival in 9th graf and UPDATE with stuck
barges freed, Coast Guard explaining why decision on closing
section of river has not been made yet. Picks up 11th graf pvs
``The low...''</NOTE>
<HEAD>With AM-Drought Rdp Bjt</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By WOODY BAIRD</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>MEMPHIS, Tenn. (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   The Mississippi River's record low-water
levels caused by the drought in the Midwest and Plains threw more
roadblocks in the way of river barge shipping Monday.
   And authorities warned that sandbars exposed by the dropping
water are dangerous and claimed three lives over the weekend.
   ``A little rain at St. Louis is not what is needed,'' said Coast
Guard Lt. Phil Rhoades. ``A drenching of the entire Mississippi
drainage basin is needed, lots of water.''
   Towboats were freed during the weekend from backups caused by
shallow water and sandbars at Greenville, Miss., and on the Ohio
River after dredges cut fresh channels through the shallow river
bottoms.
   But Coast Guard Cmdr. Michael Donohoe said a low section of the
river six miles north of Memphis probably would be closed for
dredging and could stay closed for two days or more.
   And a barge ran aground early Monday in shallow water near
Gunnison, Miss., and engineers said it could take as long as three
days to dredge a deeper channel at that spot.
   The Mississippi at Memphis was more than 20 feet lower than this
time last year on Monday and 40 to 50 feet below its springtime
level, Donohoe said.
   The main channel was 9 feet deep, and perhaps a little less, for
about 1,000 feet at the low spot and the river's width there was
down from 500 feet to about 170 feet, he said.
   A Corps of Engineers dredge was expected to arrive Tuesday to
begin deepening the channel to 12 to 14 feet and widening it to 300
feet, Donohoe said.
   A decision on closing the river for the dredging or allowing
limited barge traffic while the work is under way would be made
Tuesday, said Lt. Tony Bauncore. ``If it can be done quicker with
it closed, we'll do that,'' Bauncore said.
   Four towboats with a total of about 35 barges were reported
grounded Monday at other low spots near Memphis, but Bauncore said
they all were eventually freed.
   Donohoe said towboats working in the Memphis area were being
limited to six barges each. The boats generally can handle 30 to 40
barges each, he said.
   The low water also exposed huge sandbars that were drawing
spectators dangerously close to the river.
   Three people drowned near Natchez, Miss., Sunday when a sandbar
they were walking on fell apart, said Rhoades.
   ``These sandbars have been under water and they're not stable,''
he said. ``If you've seen the side of a sandcastle just fall away,
that's basically what it can be if you're walking on a sandbar.''
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0286 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 2212EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r f AM-TraderDisguised     06-20 0264</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Trader Disguised,0274</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Trader Accused Of Using Disguises Pleads Guilty To Fraud</HEAD>
<DATELINE>CHICAGO (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   A man accused of disguising himself with a wig to
help carry out a fraudulent trading scheme at the Chicago Board of
Trade pleaded guilty Monday to conspiracy and wire fraud.
   Daniel Dewey, 39, entered the plea in U.S. District Court as
part of an agreement in which he and two other men will testify
against a former broker at the Board of Trade.
   Prosecutors said the scheme involved Dewey _ wearing a wig,
phony trading jacket and false badges _ trading U.S. Treasury bond
futures, then submitting the trading card to the former broker,
Thompson B. Sanders, 45.
   If the trade made money, Sanders would process the trading card
through his brokerage business, the indictment charged.
   It said that if the trade lost money, Sanders would not process
it. The other party to the trade would not be able to trace it
because of Dewey's fake identification.
   The other two defendants _ David Pelleu, 45, and Dan Kolton, 24
_ already have pleaded guilty and are awaiting sentencing.
   Prosecutors said the group made thousands of dollars operating
the scheme on three days in 1986.
   In one instance, however, Sanders and Dewey did not claim one
trade of 600 contracts of Treasury bond futures because it turned
into a loss of more than $100,000, the indictment stated.
   The market rallied the next day, giving them a potential profit
of $500,000 on the contracts, but they did not claim it for fear of
being found out, the indictment stated.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
<DOC>
<DOCNO> AP880620-0287 </DOCNO>
<FILEID>AP-NR-06-20-88 2224EST</FILEID>
<1ST_LINE>r f AM-JapanBeef-Texas     06-20 0433</1ST_LINE>
<2ND_LINE>AM-Japan Beef-Texas,0447</2ND_LINE>
<HEAD>Lift on Import Restrictions for Beef, Oranges, Welcome in Texas</HEAD>
<HEAD>With AM-Japan-Beef Bjt</HEAD>
<BYLINE>By READ MARTIN</BYLINE>
<BYLINE>Associated Press Writer</BYLINE>
<DATELINE>DALLAS (AP) </DATELINE>
<TEXT>
   Texas cattlemen say Japan's decision Monday to
liberalize import restrictions on beef boosts morale by opening the
door to more trade in the future, although they doubt they'll see
an immediate financial gain.
   The agreement, announced in Tokyo by U.S. Trade Representative
Clayton Yeutter, calls for Japan to nearly double its beef imports
by 1991. It also provides for doubling Japan's imports of oranges
from the United States.
   ``We're very pleased with this agreement,'' said Charles E.
Ball, executive vice president of the Texas Cattle Feeders
Association in Amarillo.
   ``It is something that we have felt we should have had for a
number of years. The Japanese have been very slow to negotiate on
quotas,'' Ball said.
   But cattlemen in Texas, the nation's biggest cattle producer
last year, said the immediate financial impact of the decision is
less certain.
   ``This (Japan) will become a significant market in the future,
but in terms of dollars this year or next year it's going to be
very difficult to measure,'' Ball said.
   ``The import quota as I understand it was very small anyway, and
doubling something that was small to begin with is going to have a
pretty minor impact, but it's a step in the right direction,'' said
San Angelo rancher Skipper Duncan, who raises feeder cattle.
   Under the pact, tariffs would be cut gradually to a level of 50
percent by 1993 and import quotas on oranges would be eliminated.
   ``This has been a psychological thing for our people: the fact
that we import so much from Japan while they've had barriers on our
beef and citrus over there,'' Ball said. ``It's going to be a
morale booster for us and it's going to help our markets some.''
   Texas citrus growers, heavily concentrated in production of
fresh grapefruit, will be affected indirectly by the pact on
oranges, said Ray Prewett, executive vice president of Texas Citrus
Mutual, the citrus growers trade association in the Rio Grande
Valley.
   ``Primarily our export is in grapefruit, and that's in fresh
grapefruit,'' Prewett said.
   ``We will benefit as far as oranges go, because if Florida and
California increase their orange exports that will have an effect
on us by not having as much domestic oranges (in the market). It
will have a positive long-term effect.''
   By 1990, quotas on fresh oranges would be eliminated and tariffs
set at 20 percent to 40 percent. Quotas on orange juice also will
be phased out.
</TEXT>
</DOC>
